

COLONIAL
LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
“ NON TUA TE MOVEANT, SED PUBLICA VOTA.”
Vol. I. No. 22.]
SYDNEY, THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1844.
[Price 4d.
ADVANCEMENT IN LIFE.
The ambition of well-doing is a feeling both salutary
and honourable ; and, though all are not born to
attain the first rank, and all cannot expect to reach
the eminence to which they may aspire, yet no one, if
guided by right principles, can fail of partial success.
The many animating examples, placed before us by
the page of history, of men, pre-eminent in all the
various departments of learning and science, who have
risen from the humblest and most unfavourable situ-
ations, forbid the weakest to despair, for the greater
merit will be his. Wealth is an object at which all
aim. In this shadowy pursuit, the poor man may be
comforted by the reflection, that so far from his po-
verty being detrimental to him—in a country blessed
with free and liberal institutions—the experience he
is gaining operates for his greatest benefit. If he com-
mence life, animated by a resolute spirit, and guided
by good principles, the poor man has a chance of
eventual success, oftentimes superior to the youth
whose patrimony is considerable. The former learns,
by experience, the value of the minutest sums, and
the value of time, which is but wealth, as yet unde-
veloped, to him; whereas th£ latter squanders heed-
lessly or unknowingly the one, and, by his consequent
failure, misspends the other. The progress of the
former is ever onward; the latter, probably, loses
daily, and, after all, has to begin afresh, and learn his
first steps (so to speak) under the tuition of that
bitter monitress—practical experience.
“ In fact, fortune, or original good circumstances,
(as observed by an excellent writer,) appear as re-
quisites of a very unimportant character compared
with ta 7 ent, 'power of application , self-denial , and,
honourable intentions .”
The above remarks are carried out in so clear and
able a manner in the following observations, that, we
feel we cannot do better than give them, slightly
abridged, for the benefit of our readers.
“ First, there is one great maxim that no youth
should ever want before his eyes, namely, that hardly
any thing is beyond the attainment of real merit
Let a man set up almost any object before him on
entering life, and, if his ambition be of that genuine
kind which springs from talent, and is not too much
for his prudence , there is a strong chance in his favour
that a keen and steady pursuit of the object will make
him triumph at last. It is very common, when the
proposal of a young man’s entry into life is discussed,
to hear complaints as to the pre-occupation of every
field of adventure by unemployed multitudes. There
may occasionally be some cause for this; but the
general truth is undeniable, that, in spite of every
disadvantage, men are rising daily to distinction in
every profession—the broadest shoulders, as usual,
making their way best through the crowd. It is the
slothful and the fearful that generally make such
complaints ; and they obviously do so in order to
assure themselves that they are not altogether wrong
in continuing to misspend their time. "When we hear
of the over-crowded state of any proposed profession,
we are apt to overlook that an immense proportion of
those engaged in it are destined, by the weakness of
their character, and want of specific qualifications, to
make no way for themselves, and must soon be the
same, so far as rivalry is concerned, as if they had
never entered it. If the entrant, then, has only a
well-grounded confidence in his own powers of ex-
ertion and perseverance, he need hardly be afraid
to enter any profession. With the serious desire of
well-doing at heart, and some tolerable share of
ability, he is sure very soon to get ahead of a great
proportion of those already in the field. 'Only let
him never despair—that is, tell himself it is all in
vain, in order that he may become idle with a good
conscience—and there is hardly any fear of him.
Talent. —It is a common cry that those who suc-
ceed best in life are the dullest people, and that talent
is too fine a quality for common pursuits. There can-
not be a greater fallacy than this. It may be true
that some decidedly stupid people succeed through
the force of a dogged resolution, which hardly any
man of superior genius could have submitted to. But
I am disposed to dispute, in a great measure, the ex-
istence of talent, where I do not find it at once pro-
ductive of superior address in ordinary affairs, and
attended by a magnanimity which elevates the pos-
sessor above all paltry and vicious actions. The
genius which only misleads its possessor from the
paths of prudence, or renders him a ridiculous and
intolerable member of society, is too much allied to
Bedlam to be taken into account ; and in reality there
is nowhere so much of what is called genius as in the
mad-houses. The imputation of dulness to a man
who has prospered in life, will be found by impartial
inquirers, in nine cases out of ten, to be a mere
consolatory appliance to the self-love of one who has
neither had the talent nor the morality to prosper in
life himself. Let every man, then, who possesses this
gift, rejoice in it with all bis heart, and seek by every
means to give it proper guidance and direction.
Application is another of the indispensable requi


sites. Detached efforts, though they may individually
be great, can never tell so well in the aggregate as a
regular and constant exertion, where the doings of one
day fortify and improve the doings of the preceding,
and lead on with certainty to the better doings of the
next. It is not economical to work by fits and starts ;
more exertion is required, by that system, for a certain
end, than what is necessary in the case of a continuous
effort, and thus the irregular man is apt to fall far
behind his rivals. Men of ability are apt to despise
application as a mean and grubbing qualification—
which is only a piece of overweening self-love on their
part, and likely to be the very means of frustrating all
the proper results of their ability. On the other hand,
the industrious man is apt to despair for want of abi-
lity—not seeing that the clever fellows are liable to
the weakness we describe, which causes them to be
constantly giving way in the race to mere plodders.
Besides, while few faults are more common than an
over-estimation of one’s self, it is equally obvious
that many men only discover their abilities by chance,
and that all of us possess latent powers, which might
be turned to good account, if we only knew and had
confidence in them. No man, therefore, should be
too easily dashed on the subject of his abilities. He
should try, and, with the aid of a persevering industry,
he may do wonders such as he never dreamt of.”
Biography.
THE ADMIRABLE CRICHTON.
[continued.)
At Padua, Crichton flew in the face of the University, and
dismayed it. From Padua, he proceeded to Mantua. ‘ There
happened, at this time, to be at the court of Mantua, a certain
Italian gentleman,’ saith the quaint Urquhart, ‘ of a mighty,
able, strong, nimble, and vigorous body; but, by nature, fierce,
cruel, warlike, and audacious, and superlatively expert and
dexterous in the use of his weapon.’ Elated by his uncommon
skill, and rendered haughty by continual victory, this gentleman
had chosen for himself a very singular profession—that of a
travelling gladiator, or bravo. His custom was, on his
arrival in any city, to challenge all who chose to try their skill
with him in single combat; he himself laying down a certain
sum of money, aud his opponent the same, with the proviso,
that the united purses should be the meed of the conqueror.
On his arrival at Mantua, three gentlemen had speedily ac-
cepted his challenge ; and such was the uncommon skill of
their opponent, that all had paid the penalty of their rashness
with their lives. Their deaths were the subject of universal
regret at the court of Mantua ; and this feeling became the
more poignant, on account of the ungenerous exultation of the
Italian; in whom, contrary to what we generally find in brave
men, there appear to have been united the three extremes of
courage, cruelty, and insolence.
Crichton, disregarding the danger he underwent, unap-
palled by the fate of his precursors in the enterprize, and
perhaps confident, from having witnessed their attempts, of his
own superior skill, determined to exchange the peaceful en-
counters in which he had astonished the Italians, for a combat
of a more desperate kind. He, accordingly, sent a challenge
to this formidable antagonist, and encountered him, before the
assembled court of Mantua. It is easy to imagine, when we
take into consideration the extraordinary popularity of this
young foreigner, his amiable manners, and various and un-
com.ron endowments, the very high interest which such a
single combat must have excited. It was the struggle of the
brutal courage of a professional duellist, against the high*
spirited and chivalrous bravery of an accomplished gentleman ;
and the result was equally glorious -to him here, as upon all
other occasions. After a contest, in which he, at first, acted
on the defensive, and evinced the most consummate skill in
foiling the attacks, and at length completely exhausting the
strength of his antagonist, he dexterously seized the advantage,
became the assailant, and obtained an easy victory; putting
the Italian to death, by thrice passing his sword through his
body.
In consequence of this achievement, and the high reputation
he had acquired in Italy, the Duke of Mantua engaged him as
the companion and preceptor to his son, Vincenzo di Gonzaga,
a young man who had evinced a strong passion for literature,
but was otherwise of a passionate temper and dissolute
manners.
Dramatic entertainments were the rage at the court of
Mantua, and Crichton was not behind hand here. For the
entertainment of his pupil, the prince, and the whole court,
Crichton composed a sort of satirical monologue, in which he
himself performed fourteen different characters.
But let us listen for a moment to the inimitable language
with which this story is clothed by Sir Thomas Urquhart.—
‘ how great liveliness did he represent the condition of
all manner of men ! how naturally did he set before the eyes
of the beholders the rogueries of all professions, from the over-
weening monarch to the peevish swain, through all the inter-
mediate degrees of the superficial courtier, or proud warrior,
dissembled churchman, doting old man, cozening lawyer, lying
traveller, covetous merchant, rude seaman, pedantic scholar,
amorous shepherd, envious artizan, vain-glorious master, and
tricksy servant! He did with such variety display the several
humours of all these sorts of people, and with so bewitching
energy, that he seemed to be the original, they the counterfeit;
and they the resemblance whereof he was the prototype. He
had all the jeers, squibs, bulls, quips, taunts, whims, jests,
clenches, gybes, mokes, jerks, with all the several kinds of
equivocations, and other sophistical captions, that could pro-
perly be adapted to the person by whose representation he had
intended to inveigle the company into mirth; and would keep,
m that miscellany discourse of his, which was all for the
spleen, and nothing for the gall, such a climacterical and
mercurially digested method, that, when the fancy of the
hearers was tickled with any rare conceit, and that the jovial
blood was moved, he held it going with another new device
upon the back of the first, and another, yet another, and
another again, succeeding one another, for the premoval of
what is a stirring into a higher agitation, till, in the closure of
the luxuriant period, the decumanal wave of the oddest
whimsy of all, enforced the charmed spirits of the auditory
(for affording room to his apprehension) suddenly to burst
forth into a laughter ; which commonly lasted so long, as he
had leisure to withdraw behind the screen, shift off, with the
help of a page, the suite he had on, apparel himself with
another, and return to the stage to act afresh; for, by that
time, their transported, disparpled, and sublimated fancies, by
the wonderfully operating engines of his solacious inventions,
had, from the height to which the inward screws, wheels, and
pulleys of his wit had elevated them, descended, by degrees,
into their wonted stations, he was ready for the personating of
another carriage, whereof, to the number of fourteen several
kinds, (during the five hours’ space, at the duke’s desire, the
solicitation of the court, and his own recreation, he was pleased
to histrionize it,) he shewed himself so natural a represen-
tative, that any would have thought he had been so many
several actors, different in all things else, save only the stature
of the body. * * First, he did present himself with a


crown on his head, a sceptre in his hand, being clothed with a
purple robe, furred with ermine ; after that with a mitre on
his head, a crosier in his hand, and accoutred with a pair of
lawn sleeves ; and thereafter, with a helmet on his head, the
visor up, a commanding stick in his hand, and arrayed in a
buff suit, with a scarf about his middle. Then, in a rich
apparel, after the newest fashion, he did show himself like
another Sejanus, with a periwig daubed with Cypress powder;
in sequel of that, he came out with a three-cornered cap on
his head, some parchment in his hand, and writings hanging
at his girdle, like chancery bills ; and next to that, with a
furred gown about him, an ingot of gold in his hand, and a
bag full of money at his side ; after all this, he appears again
clad in a country jacket, with a prong in his hand, and a
Monmouth-like cap on his head; then, very shortly after, with
a palmer’s coat on him, a bourdon in his hand, and some few
cockle shells stuck to his hat, he looked as if he had come in
pilgrimage from St. Michael; immediately after that, he
domineers it in a bare unlined gowne, with a paire of whips in
the one hand, and Corderius in the other ; and in suite thereof
he honderspondered it with a pair of panner-like breeches, a
montera cap on his head, and a knife in a wooden sheath,
dagger-ways, by his side; about the latter end he comes forth
again, with a square in one hand, a rule in the other, and a
leathern apron before him ; then, very quickly after, with a
scrip by his side, a sheep-hook in his hand, and a basket full
of flowers to make nosegays for his mistress: and now, drawing
to a closure, he rants it, first, in cuerpo, and vapouring it with
jingling spurs, and his arms a-kenbol, like a Don Diego, he
struts it, and, by the loftiness of his gait, plays the Capitan
Spavento; then, in the very twinkling of an eye, you would
have seen him again issue forth with a cloak upon his arm, in
a livery garment, thereby representing the serving man ; and
lastly, at one time, amongst those other, he came out with a
long grey beard and puckedruff, crouching on a staff tipt with
the head of a barber’s cithern, and his gloves hanging by a
button at his girdle.”
Crichton’s brilliant career was, however, brought to an un-
timely, and most premature conclusion. “ When walking one
night through the streets of Mantua, returning from a visit
which he had paid to his mistress, and playing, as be went
along, upon his guitar, he found himself suddenly attacked by
a riotous company of persons in masks, whom, with that skill
and activity for which he was so remarkable, he soon foiled
and put to flight. Before this, however, he had disarmed and
seized the leader of the party, and upon unmasking him, dis-
covered that it was the Prince of Mantua, to whose court he
belonged. Crichton, although he had been attacked in the
meanest manner, and bad only disarmed his master, in defend -
ing himself, was yet affected by the deepest concern, upon this
discovery. He instantly dropped upon one knee ; and taking
his sword by the point, with romantic devotion, presented it
to the prince, his master. Vincenzo naturally of a revengeful
and treacherous temper, was at this moment inflamed with
wine, irritated by defeat, and perhaps by jealousy. Certain it
is, that it will require the presence of one or all, of these dark
and conflicting passions, to account for the act which followed.
He received Crichton’s sword, and instantly, with equal mean-
ness and brutality, employed it in piercing his defenceless, and
injured benefactor, through the heart.
Thus died the Admirable Crichton, in the twenty-second
year of his age; preserving, in this last fatal encounter, that
superiority to all other men which rendered his life so re-
markable ; and then, only, conquered, when his romantic ideas
of honour bad made him renounce the powers and the courage
which, upon every other occasion, had so pre-eminently dis-
tinguished him.
The absolute amount of Crichton’s abilities has been latterly
much disputed. Attempts have been made to show that he
was a mere impostor in literature. There appears no reason
however to doubt his being a man of extraordinary cleverness
and accomplishment. He was the intimate and esteemed
friend of some of the first eminent men of his day ; his pupib
Vincenzo of Gonzaga, was the patron of Tasso. Scaliger bears
testimony to his amazing talent, while his censure testifies to
his impartiality. “ I have heard,” says the author, “ when I
was in Italy, of one Crichton, a Scotchman, who had only
reached the age of twenty-one, when he was killed by the
command of the Duke of Mantua, who knew twelve different
languages,—had studied the fathers and the poets, —disputed
de omni scibili, and replied to his antagonists in verse. He was
a man of very wonderful genius; more worthy of admiration
than of esteem. He had something of the coxcomb about him,
and only wanted a little common sense. It is remarkable that
princes are apt to take an affection for geniuses of this stamp,
but very rarely for truly learned men.”
Crichton did nothing for philosophy. He invented nothing.
He was not a teacher; he was only a specimen of what a man
may be taught. He appears to have possessed great beauty,
great personal adroitness, a quick power of perception joined
to a most prodigious memory ; and added to these, the ready
address that naturally resulted from a confidence in his own
resources. This last faculty alone would have ensured a
triumphant career in debate, even though bis reason were not
of a profound order. His memory, however, appears to have
been the most remarkable thing about him. He could recol-
lect a discourse word for word after once hearing it. Sir
Walter Scott (a real genius) partook of this faculty. Mag-
liabecclii, the Florentine librarian, could recollect whole
volumes, all in fact that he read. —He once supplied an author
from memory with a copy of his own work, of which the
M.S. had been lost. Magliabecchi however does not appear
to have been other than a dull man. Could we imagine him
adroit in mind, and adroit too in person, we immediately have
a second Crichton ; and it is not great stretch of imagination.
The philosophy of the schools in Crichton’s time was very cut
and dry; reduced to heads and sections, and the motions in
argument as much reduced to rule, as a game of chess by
Sarratt or Philidor. Crichton then had a mind to learn,
address' and person to execute; a coincidence of faculties
neither difficult to imagine, nor improbable to exist. He was
perhaps, without vastness, profoundness, or even originality
of intellect, the cleverest man that has appeared. It must be
remembered too, that from the prematurity of his death, his was
rather a life of promise than performance ; and, in spite of the
proverb, promises are not always made to be broken.
REVENGE.
“ Though justice be thy plea, consider this :
That in the course of justice, none of us
Should see salvation : we do pray for mercy;
And that same prayer doth teach us all to render
The deeds of mercy.”
Merchant of Venice.
“ Revenge,” says Bacon, “ is a kind of wild justice,
which the more a man’s nature runs to, the more
ought law to weed it out.” This spirit of revenge is
one, than which no stronger passion exists in our
nature, nor one that clings with a firmer grasp—with
a more unbending pertinacity, to that supremacy
which it usually succeeds in acquiring. There are
very few (and those more in theory than in practice)
who may be said to have conquered this troublesome
passion—nor is it to be wondered at: for if there be
any emotion of the mind which may, from its univer


sality, be designated a principle or law of our nature,
it is this same spirit of revenge. We are all more or
less imbued with it ; and he who succeeds in stifling
or acting in opposition to its instigations, approaches
nearest to that divine mind, which breathes in every
sentiment, and irradiates every page, of the book of
inspiration.
Besides, it is notoriously unjust to revenge a sup-
posed injury with our own hands, and that for two
obvious reasons : —First—by so doing we set the law
at defiance, forgetting that we might have obtained a
full and perfect reparation through it, the only lawful
channel : and secondly, because, whilst labouring
under aroused and excited passions, we are physically
and morally incapable of judging impartially, either
touching the amount of injury we have sustained, or
the punishment it merits.
It was, in some measure, to prevent this dark and
gloomy spirit of revenge, ranging wild and unchecked
over the universe, subjecting one man to the fancied
notions of justice entertained by another—and he,
too, smarting under some real or imaginary wrong —
that the law, possessed as it is of deep wisdom and
strict impartiality, was instituted. And having once
assented to the principle, that the law should deal
impartial justice to all men, punishing the offender
and making restitution to the injured ; it will be seen
that revenge, if encouraged at all, must be rendered
subservient to the law, whose office it will be to divest
the subject of all rancour and personal feeling, and,
by taking a calm and an impartial view of it, award
such punishment as may be thought equivalent to the
injury done.
These remarks only apply to those acts of revenge,
the performance of which is a violation of law. There
are many minor acts of injustice committed which do
not come within the reach of the law ; and it is con-
sidered, in such cases, the province of man to revenge
them, provided that the means employed be not in
themselves unjust. There can be no doubt that this
right both morally and legally is ceded to man —and
it appears but justice that it should be so. It cer-
tainly is more tolerable than that wild spirit which
bursts through all the barriers that have been opposed
to it, and which invariably leads to the commission of
crimes deeper and deadlier than the one by which it
was called into existence. We have no right, how-
ever, to compel men to forgive injuries—our province
is only to persuade. Not all the touching appeals of
Portia could, quell the fiendish spirit of revenge which
raged in the breast of Shylock ; and there w r as no law*
to compel him to forego the power he had purchased
over his victim. It was in vain to tell him—and there
are some men, we fear in the present day, whose
minds are equally inaccessible to the touch of pity
that to revenge a wrong was devilish ; to forgive it,
divine. . We are too much wedded to our likings and
our dislikings, ever to resign the power we acquire by
sustaining an injury. The mind of man is composed
of a soil too uncultivated and rude for the growth of
a gentler spirit ; and were we possessed of such a
spirit, it would be too often choked amidst the wild-
ness of those human passions which are for ever
springing up to mar even the faint resemblance of
virtue which the depravity of our nature has left us to
boast of. There have been instances to the contrary
it is true ; but alas ! they are
“ Like angels’ visits, few and far between.”
A man receiving an injury from another, is by the
act placed in a superior position to ihe person bv
whom he is wronged ; whilst, by vindictively resent-
ing the wrong, he voluntarily retires from the eminence
he occupied—he falls back to his former level. It
would be far more galling to his adversary were he to
find that by his act of injustice he had given a supe-
riority to the person he intended to have injured ; and
a wise man will always forgive an injury and maintain
this position ; but a foolish and head-strong person
will resent it, and, by doing so, retire from that posi-
tion which he was unfit to occupy.
If, instead of fostering a spirit of forgiveness towards
the frailties of one another, we encourage rancour,
and bitterness, and enmity ; how can we expect but
that the same will be meted to us again ? “ Vindic-
tive persons” says Bacon “live the life of witches;
who', as they are mischievous, so end they unfor-
tunate.” And the comparison is just. Evil passions
if encouraged will inevitably recoil upon ourselves ;
and instead of going down to the grave honored and
respected, we shall pass away uncared for and un-
wept —with no kind hand to smooth our pillow—no
gentle voice to whisper peace. Let us strive then to
learn forgiveness ; and thus we shall be enabled when
seeking mercy ourselves, to exclaim with truth and
feeling—“ Father! forgive us our trespasses as we
forgive them that trespass against us.”
History.
ANCIENT HISTORY: SECTION XXI.
OF THE GREEK FOETS.
1. The Greeks were the first who reduced the athletic
exercises to a system, and considered them as an object
of general attention and importance. The Panathe-
nsean, and afterwards the Olympic, the Pythian,
Nemaean, and Isthmian games, were under the
regulation of the laws, and subject to the rules laid
down by the ablest statesmen and legislators. They
contributed essentially to the improvement of the
nation : and while they cherished martial ardour,
and promoted hardiness and agility of body, cultivated
likewise urbanity and politeness.
2. The games of Greece were not confined to
gymnastic or athletic exercises. They encouraged
competition in genius and learning. They were
the resort of the poets, the historians, and the phi-
losophers.
3. In all nations poetry is of greater antiquity than
prose composition. The earliest prose writers in
Greece, Pherecydes of Scyros, and Cadmus of Miletus,
were 350 years posterior to Homer. Any remains of
the more ancient poets, as Linus, Orpheus, &c. are
extremely suspicious. Homer, of whose birth both
the place and era are very uncertain, is generally
supposed to have been a native of lonia, and to have
flourished about 907 b.c. ; to have followed the occu-
pation of a wandering minstrel, and to have composed
his poems in detached fragments, and separate ballads,
and episodes. Lycurgus, the Spartan lawgiver, is
said to have been the first who brought from lonia
into Greece complete copies of the Iliad and Odyssey ;
which, however, were not arranged in the order in
which we now see them, till 250 years afterwards by
Pisistratus, tyrant of Athens. Pisistratus, *a bout 540


B.c. firstemployed learned men to collect and methodise
these fragments ; and to this we owe the complete
poems of the Iliad and Odyssey. They were revised
by Callisthenes and Anaxarchus, at the command of
Alexander the Great; and again finally revised by
the celebrated grammarian and critic, Aristarchus, by
order of Ptolemy Philomater. But the distinguishing
merits of Homer are independent of all critical ar-
rangement. His profound knowledge of human
nature, his masterly skill in the delineation of cha-
racter, his faithful and minute description of ancient
manners, his command of the passions, his genius for
the sublime and beautiful, and the harmony of his
poetical numbers, have deservedly established his
reputation as the greatest poet of antiquity. His fide-
lity as an historian has been questioned ; but the great
outlines of his narrative are probably authentic. The
moral of the Iliad is, that dissension among the chiefs
of a country is generally fatal to the people ; and that
of the Odyssey, that prudence joined to courage and
perseverance are sufficient to surmount the most pow-
erful obstacles.
4. Hesiod was nearly contemporary with Homer :
a poet, of whose merits we should be little sensible,
were they not seen through the medium of an im-
mense antiquity. The poem of the Works and Days
contains some judicious precepts of agriculture. The
Theogony is an obscure history of the origin of the
gods, and the formation of the universe.
5. About two centuries after Homer and Hesiod,
flourished Archilochus, the inventor of lambic verse ;
and Terpander, who is equally celebrated as a poet
and a musician, but of whose verses we have no
remains. The two succeeding centuries were dis-
tinguished by nine lyric poets of great celebrity.
Alcmanrr and Stesichorus, of whom we have but a
few imperfect remains ; Sappho, of whose composition
we have two exquisite odes; Alcreus, Simonides,
Ibycus, and Bacchylides, of whom there are some fine
fragments ; and Pindar and Anacreon, who have left
enough to allow an accurate estimate of their merits.
6. Pindar was esteemed by the ancients the chief
of the lyric poets. He possesses unbounded fancy,
and great sublimity of imagery ; but his digressions
are so rapid and so frequent, that we cannot discover
the chain of thought ; and his expression is allowed,
even by Longinus, to be often obscure and unintel-
ligible.
7. Anacreon is a great contrast to Pindar. His
fancy suggests only familiar and luxurious pictures.
He has no comprehension of the sublime, but contents
himself with the easy, the graceful, and the wanton.
llis morality is loose, and his sentiments little else
lhan the effusion of a voluptuary, and therefore too
immoral to find favour with the friends of virtue.
8. jhe collection termed Anthologia , which con-
sists chiefly of ancient epigrams, contains many
valuable specimens of the taste and poetical fancy of
the Greeks, and contributes materially to the illus-
tration of their manners. The best of the modern
epigrams may be traced to this source.
9. The era of the origin of dramatic composition
among the Greeks, is supposed to have commenced
about 590 b.c. 1 hespis, who is said to have been
the inventor of tragedy, was contemporary with Solon.
Within Jittle more than a century the Greek drama
was carried to its highest perfection ; for /Eschylus
died 456 b.c. HSschylus wrote sixty-six tragedies ;
for thirteen of which he gained the first prize of
dramatic poetry at the Olympic games. Only seven
are now extant. Like Shakspeare, his genius is sub-
lime, and his imagination unbounded. He disdained
regularity of plan, and all artificial restriction ; but
unfortunately he disdained likewise the restraints of
decency and of good morals.
10. Euripides and Sophocles flourished about fifty
years after TEschylus. Euripides is most masterly in
painting the passion of love, both in its tenderest
emotions and in its most violent paroxysms: yet the
characters of his women demonstrate that he had no
great opinion of the virtues of the sex. Longinus
does not rate high his talent for the sublime ; but he
possessed a much superior excellence ; his verses,
with great eloquence and harmony, breathe the most
admirable morality. There remain twenty tragedies
of Euripides, out of about seventy-five said to have
been written by him ; and of these the Medea is
deemed the most excellent.
11. Sophocles shared with Euripides the palm of
dramatic poetry ; and is judged to have surpassed
him in the grand, the terrible, and the sublime. Of
120 tragedies which he composed, only seven remain.
They display great knowledge of the human heart,
and a general chastity and simplicity of expression,
which give the greater force to the occasional strokes
of the sublime. The CEdipus of Sophocles is esteemed
the most perfect production of the Greek stage.
12. The Greek comedy is divided into the ancient ,
the middle , and the new. The first was a licentious
satire and mimicry of real personages exhibited by
name upon the stage. The laws repressed this ex-
treme license, and gave birth to the middle comedy,
which continued the satirical delineation of real
persons, but under fictitious names. The last im-
provement consisted in banishing all personal satire,
and confining comedy to a delineation of manners.
This was the new comedy. Of the first species, the
ancient, we have no remains. The dramas of Aris-
tophanes, of which we have eleven, are an example of
the second or middle comedy. The grossness of his
raillery, and the malevolence which frequently in-
spired it, are a reproach to the morals of that people
which could tolerate it. Yet his works have their
value, as throwing light upon ancient manners.
13. Of the new comedy Menander was the bright
example ; possessing a vein of the most delicate wit,
with the utmost purity of moral sentiment. Unfor-
tunately we have nothing of him remaining but a few
fragments preserved by Athenaeus, Plutarch, Stobceus,
and Eustathius. We see a great deal of his merits,
however, in his copyist and translator Terence.
14. The actors both in the Greek and Roman
theatres wore masks, of which the features were
strongly painted, and the mouth so constructed as to
increase the power of the voice.—lt is probable the
tragedy and comedy of the Greeks and Romans were
set to music, and sung like the recitative in the
Italian opera ; and sometimes one person was em-
ployed to recite or sing the part, and another to per-
form the corresponding action or gesticulation.
15. The Mimes originally made a part of the
ancient comedy, and consisted of grotesque dances
played between the acts; but becoming popular with
the vulgar, they became a separate entertainment,
representing burlesque parodies on the serious tra-
gedy and comedy. The Pantomimes differed from


the mimes in this respect, that they consisted solely
of gesticulation, and were carried to great perfection.
They seem to have been very similar to our modern
pantomimes.
GORDON THE GIPSY.
It has been tritely, because truly said, that the
boldest efforts of human imagination cannot exceed
the romance of real life. The best written tale is not
that which most resembles the ordinary chain of events
and characters, but that which, by selecting and
combining them, conceals those inconsistencies and
deficiencies that leave, in real life, our sense of sight
unsatisfied. An author delights his reader when he
exhibits incidents distinctly and naturally, according
with moral justice; his portraits delight us when
they resemble our fellow-creatures without too accu-
rately tracing their moles and blemishes. This ele-
gant delight is the breathing of a purer spirit within
us, that asserts its claim to a nobler and more perfect
state ; yet another, though an austerer kind of plea-
sure arises, when we consider how much of the
divinity appears even in man’s most erring state, and
how much of “goodliness in evil.”
In one of those drear midnights that were so aw’ful
to travellers in the highlands soon after 1745, a man,
wrapped in a large coarse plaid, strode from a stone
ridge on the border of Loch Lomond into a boat
which he had drawn from its covert. He rowed
resolutely, and alone, looking carefully to the right
and left, till he suffered the tide to bear his little bark
into a gorge or gulf, so narrow, deep, and dark that
no escape but death seemed to await him. Precipices,
rugged with dwarf shrubs and broken granite, rose
more than a hundred feet on each side, sundered
only by the stream, which a thirsty season had
reduced to a sluggish and shallow pool. Then pois-
ing himself erect on his staff, the boatman drew three
times the end of a strong chain which hung among
the underwood. In a few minutes a basket descended
from the pinnacle of the cliff, and having moored his
boat, he placed himself in the wicker carriage, and was
safely drawn into a crevice high in the wall of rock,
where he disappeared.
The boat was moored, but the adventurer had not
observed that it contained another passenger. Under-
neath a plank artfully laid along its bottom, and
shrouded in a plaid of the darkest grain, another man
had been lurking more than an hour before the owner
of the boat entered it, and remained hidden by the
darkness of the night. His purpose was answered.
He had now discovered what he had sacrificed many
perilous nights to obtain, a knowledge of the mode by
which the owner of Drummond’s Keep gained access
to the impregnable fortress unsuspected. He instantly
unmooied the boat, and rowed slowly back across the
loch to an island near the centre. He rested on his
oars, and looked down upon its transparent water. —
“ 11 is there still,” he said to himself; and drawing
close among the rocks, leaped on dry land. A dog
of the true shepherd’s breed sat waiting under the
bushes, and ran before him till they descended together
under an archway of stones and withered branches.
Watch the boat !” said the highlander to his faithful
guide, who sprang immediately away to obey him.
Meanwhile his master lifted up one of the grey stones,
took a bundle from underneath it, and equipped him
self in such a suit as a trooper of Cameron’s regiment
usually wore, looked at the edge of his dirk, and
returned to his boat.
That island had once belonged to the heritage of
the Gordons, whose ancient family, urged by old
prejudices and hereditary courage, had been foremost
in the ill-managed rebellion of 1715. One of the
clan of Argyle then watched a favourable opportunity
to betray the laird’s secret movements, and was com-
missioned to arrest him. Under pretence of friend-
ship he gained entrance to his strong-hold in the isle,
and concealed a posse of the king’s soldiers at Gordon’s
door. The unfortunate laird leaped from his window
into the lake, and his false friend seeing his desperate
efforts threw him a rope, as if in kindness, to support
him while a boat came near. “ That rope was meant
for my neck,” said Gordon, “ and I leave it for a
traitor’s.” With these bitter words he sank. Cameron
saw him, and the pangs of remorse came into his
heart. He leaped himself into a boat, put an oar
towards his drowning friend with real fidelity, but
Gordon pushed it from him, and abandoned himself
to death. The waters of the lake are singularly
transparent near that isle, and Cameron beheld his
victim gradually sinking, till he seemed to lie among
the broad weeds under the waters. Once, only once,
he saw, or thought he saw him lift his hand as if to
to reach his, and that dying hand never left his re-
membrance. Cameron received the lands of the
Gordon as a recompense for his political services’,
and with them the tower called Drummond’s Keep,
then standing on the edge of a hideous defile, formed
by two walls of rock beside the lake. But from that
day he had never been seen to cross the loch, except
in darkness, or to go abroad without armed men. He
had been informed that Gordon’s only son, made
desperate by the ruin of his father and the Stuart
cause, had become the leader of a Gipsy gang, the
most numerous and savage of the many that haunted
Scotland, He was not deceived. Andrew Gordon,
with a body of most athletic composition, a spirit
sharpened by injuries, and the vigorous genius created
by necessity, had assumed dominion over two hundred
ruffians, whose exploits in driving off cattle, cutting
drovers’ purses, and removing the goods brought to
fairs or markets, were performed with all the audacious
regularity of privileged and disciplined thieves.
Cameron was the chosen and constant object of their
vengeance. His keep or tower was of the true Scot-
tish fabric, divided into three chambers ; the highest
of -which was the dormitory, the second or middle
served as a general refectory, and the lowest con-
tained his cattle, which required this lodgment at
night, or very few would have been found next
morning. His enemy frequented the fairs on the
north side of Forth, well mounted, paying at inns and
ferries, like a gentleman, and attended by bands of
gillies or young pupils, whose green coats, cudgels
and knives, w T ere sufficiently feared by the visiters of
Queensferry and Dumfermline. The gipsy chieftain
had also a grim cur, of the true black-faced breed,
famous for collecting and driving off sheep, and
therefore distinguished by his own name. In the
darkest cleughs or ravines, or in the deepest snow,
this faithful animal had never been known to abandon
the stolen flock entrusted to his care, or to fail in
tracing a fugitive. But as sight and strength failed
him, the fourfooted chieftain was deposed, imprisoned


in a Lyre loft, and finally sentenced to be drowned.
From this trifling incident arose the most material
crisis of his patron’s fate.
Between the years of 1715 and 1745, many changes
occurred in Captain Gordon and his enemy. The
Laird of Drummond Keep had lost his only son in
the battle of Breston Pans, and was now lingering in
a desolate old age, mistrusted by the government, and
abhorred by the subdued jacobites. Gordon’s banded
marauders had provoked the laws too far, and some
sanguinary battles among themselves threatened the
downfall of his own power. It was only a few nights
after a desperate affray with the Linlithgow gipsies
that the event occurred which begins my narrative.
He had been long lying in ambush to find access to
his enemy’s stronghold, intending to terminate his
vagrant career by an exploit which should satisfy his
avarice and his revenge. Equipped, as I have said,
in a Cameronian trooper’s garb, he returned to the
foot of the cliff from whence he had seen the basket
descending to convey Gavin Cameron ; and climbing
up its rough face with the activity acquired by
mountain warfare, he hung among furze and broken
rocks like a wild cat, till he found the crevice
through which the basket had seemed to issue. It
was artfully concealed by tufts of heather; but
creeping on his hands and knees, he forced his way
into the interior. There the deepest darkness
confounded him, till he laid his hand on a chain,
which he rightly guessed to be the same he had
seen hanging on the side of the lake when Cameron
landed. One end was coiled up, but he readily con-
cluded that the end must have some communication
with the keep, and he followed its course till he
found it inserted in what seemed a subterraneous
wall. A crevice behind the pulley admitted a gleam
of light, and, striving to raise himself sufficiently to
gain a view through it, he leaned too forcibly on the
chain, which sounded a bell. Its unexpected sound
would have startled an adventurer less daring, but
Gordon had prepared his stratagem, and had seen,
through the loop-hole in the wall, that no powerful
enemy was to be dreaded. Gavin Cameron was sit-
ting alone in the chamber within, with his eyes fixed
on the wood-ashes in his immense hearth. At the
holloAV sound of the bell he cast them fearfully round,
but made no attempt to rise, though he stretched his
hand towards a staff which lay near him. Gordon
saw the tremor of palsy and dismay in his limbs, and
putting his lips to the crevice, repeated, “ Father!”
in a low and supplicating tone. That word made
Gavin shudder ; but when Gordon added, et Father !
father! save me !” he sprang to the wall, drew back
the iron bolts of a narrow door, invisible to any eye
but his own, and gave admission to the muffled man,
who leaped eagerly in. Thirty years had passed
since Gavin Cameron had seen his son, and Gordon
well knew how many rumours had been spread, that
the younger Cameron had not really perished, though
the ruin of the Chevalier’s cause rendered his con-
cealment necessary. Gavin’s hopes and love had
been all revived by these rumours, and the sudden
apparition, the voice, the appeal for mercy had full
effect on the bereaved father’s imagination. The
\oice, eyes and figure of Gordon, resembled his son ;
all else might and must be changed by thirty years.
He wept like an infant on his shoulder, grasped his
hand a hundred times, and- forgot to blame him for
the rash disloyalty he had shown to his father's cause.
His pretended son told him a few strange events
which had befallen him during his long banishment
since 1715, and was spared the toil of inventing many,
by the fond delight of the old man, weeping and re-
joicing over his prodigal restored. He only asked by
what happy chance he had discovered his secret
entrance, and whether any present danger threatened
him. Gordon answered the first question with the
mere truth, and added, almost truly, that he feared
nothing but the emissaries of the government, from
whom he could not be better concealed than in Drum-
mond Keep. Old Cameron agreed with joyful eager-
ness, but presently said, “ Allan, my boy, we must
trust Annet; she’s too near kin to betray ye, and ye
were to have been her spouse.” Then he explained
that his niece was the only person in his household
acquainted with the basket and the bell ; that by her
help he could provide a mattress and provisions for his
son, but without it, would be forced to hazard the
most dangerous inconveniences, Gordon had not fore-
seen this proposal, and it darkened his countenance ;
but in another instant his imagination seized on a
rich surfeit of revenge, He was commanded to re-
turn into the cavern passage, while his nominal father
prepared his kinswoman for her new guest; and he
listened greedily to catch the answers Annet gave to
her deceived uncle’s tale. He heard the hurry of her
steps, preparing, as he supposed, a larger supper for
the old laird’s table, with the simplicity and hospi-
tality of a highland maiden. He was not mistaken.
When the bannocks, and grouse, and claret, were
arranged, Cameron presented his restored son to the
mistress of the feast. Gordon was pale and dumb as
he looked upon her. Accustomed to the wild haggard
forms that accompanied his banditti in half female
attire, ruling their miserable offspring with iron
hands, and the voices of giants, his diseased fancy
had fed itself on an idea of something beautiful, but
only in bloom and youth. He expected and hoped
to see a child full of playful folly, fit for him to steal
away and hide in his den as a sport for his secret
leisure : but a creature so fair, calm, and saintly, he
had long since forgotten how to imagine. She came
before him like a dream of some lovely picture re-
membered in his youth, and with her came some
remembrance of his former self. The good old laird,
forgetting that his niece had been but a child, and his
son a stripling when they parted, indulged the joy of
his heart by asking Annet a thousand times, whether
she could have remembered her betrothed husband,
and urging his son, since he was still unmarried, to
pledge his promised bride. Gordon was silent from
a feeling so new, that he could not comprehend his
own purposes; and Annet from fear, when she ob-
served the darkness and the fire that came by turns into
her kinsman’s face. But there was yet another peril
to encounter. Cameron’s large hearth was attended
by a dog, which roused itself when supper appeared,
and Gordon instantly recognised his banished favourite.
Black Chieftain fixed his eyes on his former master,
and with a growl that delighted him more than any
caresses would have done, remained sulkily by the
fire. On the other side of the ingle, under the shelter
of the huge chimney arch, sat a thing hardly human,
but entitled, from extreme old age, to the protection
of the owner. This was a woman bent entirely
double, with no apparent sense of sight or hearing.


though her eyes were fixed on the spindle she was
twirling; and sometimes when the laird raised his
voice, she put her lean hand on the curch or hood that
covered her ears. “Do you not remember poor old
Marian Moome'?” said Annet, and the laird led his
supposed son towards the superannuated crone, though
without expecting any mark of recognition. Whether
she had noticed anything that had passed, could not
be judged from her laugh; and she had almost ceased
to speak. Therefore, as if only dumb domestic ani-
mals had been sitting by his hearth, Cameron pursued
his arrangements for his son’s safety, advising him to
sleep composedly in the wooden-panelled bed that
formed a closet of this chamber, without regarding
the half-living skeleton, who never left the corner of
the ingle. He gave him his blessing and departed,
taking with him his niece and the key of his dreary
room, promising to return and watch by her side.
He came back in a few moments, and while the im-
postor couched himself on his mattress, took his
station again by the fire, and fell asleep, overcome
with joy and fatigue.
The embers went out by degrees, while the high-
land Jachimo lay meditating how he should prosper
by his stratagem’s success. Plunder and bloodshed
had formed no part of a scheme w r hich included far
deeper craft and finer revenge. He knew his life was
forfeited, and his person traced by officers of justice ;
and he hoped, by representing himself as the son of
Cameron, to secure all the benefits of his influence, 1
and the sanctuary of his roof; and if both should fail
to save him from justice, the disgrace of his infamous
life and death would fall on the family of his father’s
murderer. So from his earliest youth he had con-
sidered Cameron : and the hand of that drowned
father, uplifted in vain for help, was always present
to his imagination. Once, during this night, he had
thought of robbing Cameron of his money and jewels
by force, and carrying off his niece, as a hostage for
his safety. But this part of his purpose had been
deadened by a new and strange sense of holiness in
beauty, w 7 hich had made his nature human again,
let he thought of himself with bitterness and ire,
w'hen he compared her sweet society, her uncle’s kind-
ness, and the comforts of a domestic hearth, with the
herd which he now resembled ; and this self-hatred
stung him to rise and depart without molesting them.
He w 7 as prevented by the motion of a shadow 7 on the
opposite wall, and in an instant the dog, w 7 ho had so
sullenly shunned his notice, leaped from beneath his
bed, and seized the throat of the hag as she crept near
it. She had taken her sleeping master’s dirk, and
would have used it like a faithful highland servant,
if Black Chieftain s fangs had not interposed to rescue
Gordon. The broad copper broach which fastened
her plaid, saved her from suffocation, and clapping
her hands, she yelled, “ A Gordon, a Gordon !” till
the roof rung.
Gavin Cameron awoke, and ran to his supposed
son’s aid, but the mischief was done. The doors of
the huge chamber were broken open, and a troop of
men in the king’s uniform, and two messengers with
official staves, burst in together. These people had
been sent by the Lord Provost in quest of the gipsy
c ieftain, with authority to demand quarters in
Drummond’s Tower, near which they knew he had
hiding-places. Gordon saw 1 e had plunged into the
' er 7 nest of his enemies, but his daring courage
supported him. He refused to answer to the name of
Gordon, and persisted in calling himself Cameron’s
son. He was carried before the High Court of Jus-
ticiary, and the importance of the indictment fixed
the most eager attention on his trial. Considering
the celebrity, the length, and the publicity of the
gipsy chief’s career, it was thought his person would
have been instantly identified ; but the craft he had
used in tinging his hair, complexion and eye-brows,
and altering his whole appearance to.resemble Came-
ron’s son, baffled the many w r ho appeared as his
accusers. So much had Gordon attached his col-
leagues, or so strong was the Spartan spirit of fidelity
and obedience amongst them, that not one appeared
to testify against him. Gavin Cameron and his
niece were cited to give their evidence on oath ; and
the miserable father, whatever doubts might secretly
arise in his mind, dared not hazard a denial which
might sacrifice his own son’s life. He answered in
an agony which his gray hairs made venerable, that
he believed the accused to be his son, but left it to
himself to prove what he had no means of manifesting.
Annet was called next to confirm her uncle’s account
of her cousin’s rhysterious arrival : but when the
accused turned his eyes upon her, she fainted, and
could not be recalled to speech. This swoon was
deemed the most affecting evidence of his identity :
and finally, the dog was brought into court. Several
witnesses recognized him as the prime forager of the
Gordon gipsies: but Cameron’s steward, who swore
that he saved him by chance from drowning in the
loch, also proved that the animal never showed the
smallest sagacity in herding sheep, and had been
kept by his master’s fireside as a mere household
guard, distinguished by his ludicrous attention to
music. When shown at the bar, the crafty and
conscious brute seemed wholly unacquainted with
the prisoner, and his surly silence was regarded as
evidence by the crowd. The Lord High Com-
missioner summed up the whole, and the chancellor
of the jury declared, that a majority almost amount-
ing to unanimity, acquitted the accused. Gordon,
under the name of Cameron, was led from the bar
with acclamations ; but at the threshold of the sessions
court, another pursuivant awaited him with an arrest
for high treason, as an adherent to the Pretender in
arms. The enraged crow r d would have rescued him
by force, and made outcries which he silenced with a
haughty air of command, desiring to be led back to
his judges. He insisted in such cool and firm lan-
guage, and his countenance had in it such a rare
authority, that after some dispute about the breach of
official order, he was admitted into a room where two
or three of the chief lords of session, and the
chancellor of the jury were assembled. Though
still fettered both on hands and feet, he stood before
them in an attitude of singular grace, and made this
speech, as it appears in the language of the record.
“ The people abroad would befriend me, because
they love the cause they think I have served ; and
m y judge, I take leave to think, would pity me, if
they saw an old man aud a tender woman pleading
again for my life. But I will profit in nothing by
m y j u dg es ’ pity* uor the people’s love for a Cameron.
I have triumphed enough to-day, since 1 have baf-
fled both my accusers and my jury. I am Gordon,
chief of the wandering tribes; but since you have
acquitted me on 1 soul and conscience,’ you cannot


try me again ; and, since I am not a Cameron, you
cannot try me for Cameron’s treasons. I have had
my revenge of my father’s enemy, and I might have
had more. He once felt the dead grip of a Gor-
don, and he should have felt it again if he had not
called me his son, and blessed me as my father once
did. If you had sent me to the Grass-market, I
would have been hanged as a Cameron, for it is
better that one of that name than mine to die the
death of a dog; but since you have set me free, I
will live free as a Gordon.”
This extraordinary appeal astonished and con-
founded his hearers. They were ashamed of their
mistaken judgments, and dismayed at the dilemma.
They could neither prove him to be a Cameron or a
Gordon, except by his own avowal, which might be
false either in the first or second cause ; and after
some consultation with the secretary of state, it was
agreed to transport him privately to France. But on
his road to a seaport, his escort was attacked by a
troop of wild men and women, who fought with the
fury of Arabs till they had rescued their leader,
whose name remained celebrated till within the last
sixty years, as the most formidable of the gipsy tribe.
—Story Teller .
THE ART OF PRINTING.
( Continued from page 199.,)
Having, in the first article on this subject, mentioned that
the earliest specimens of printing which have been discovered,
consist in the stamped marks on the bricks and tiles used in
building the city and tower of Babel, and which may be dated
2200 years before Christ, I now proceed to detail the various
stages of improvement in this nobie art. Before, however,
leaving this early branch of the subject, I may notice, that a
number of the stamped clay materials of Babel are still pre-
served in the repositories of antiquity. It is remarked, that
they generally differ in shape and appearance, and that the
letters, or words, which are in an ancient character, seem to
have been stamped by the hand by moveable blocks. In
Trinity College, Cambridge, some curious specimens are pre-
served, one of which is a round piece of clay, seven inches in
height, and three inches in thickness at the ends, resembling
a barrel, or a lady’s ball of thread in shape, being thickest in
the middle. This interesting relic—this Chaldean book—.is
entirely covered with lines of letters and words running from
the one end to the other ; from its r ortable character, it may
he called a pocket volume, and one which cannot be less than
4000 years old. The greatest possible care is taken of this
precious relic of antiquity. It is mounted on a marble pedestal,
covered with a glass case secured by an iron bracket, and so
contrived that the curious inspector may cause it to revolve on
its marble base. It appears to have been printed by two
moulds, and at the middle of the circumference a small blank
space has been left, in case, as it is supposed, room should
be required for a portion of the clay to escape in the action of
compression.
Next to these extremely ancient stamped bricks, in point of
interest and antiquity, are the specimens now shown of the
earliest engraving of letters upon stone. It has been signified
by various writers, that Cadmus, a Phoenician who lived 1500
years before Christ, at a period contemporary with Moses, and
who has been esteemed the builder of the city of Thebes, was
the first who taught the Greeks the use of alphabetic symbols,
an art he most likely learned from the Hebrews. The most
ancient specimen of an engraved inscription now known to be
extant, is the Sigean Inscription, so called from having been
disinterred upon a promontory named Sigeum, situate near the
ancient city of Troy in Greece. It is engraved on a pillar of
beautifully white marble, nine feet high, two feet broad, and
eight inches thick, and which, from the inscription, served as
the pedestal for the heathen god Hermocrates. The letters
used in this inscription are the capitals of the Grecian language,
diough rudely cut, but read from right to left like the Hebrew.
I Ins specimen of engraving must be about 3000 years old.
Another not less interesting relic of the earliest stage of
printing is found in a Roman signet ring, of stamp, approach-
ing in character to that species of stamp now used by the Post
Office on letters. A not very dissimilar stamp in the Greek
character is in the possession of the Antiquarian Society of
Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
It will be perceived, that, however curious these relics of
literature may be, they do not bear any connection with the
art of printing books. The origin of this invention seems to
be quite independent of a preceding knowledge of impressing
by means of stamps. What is, however, worthy of remark, the
art of printing books, though on a rude principle, was known
and in use among the Chinese at least fourteen hundred years
before it was invented in Europe. The printing of the Chinese
has never resembled any thing of the kind in this country.
From the first, it has been conducted without moveable types.
Each page has been, and continues to be, a block or cut stamp,
which is thus useful only for one subject, so that every book
must have its own blocks. No press is used. The paper
being thin, when laid on the block, receives the impression by
being smoothed over with a brush. There is reason to infer
that the art of printing, as thus practised by the Chinese, may
have originated through a knowledge of the still more ancient
Chaldean mode of printing by blocks on clay. Chambers’
Journal.
To be continued.
Varieties.
Beauty.— After all, though Beauty be deceitful, and favor
vain, yet beauty is the most exquisite gift ever lavished by
fairies around an infant’s cradle. Its charm is nameless ; it
wins us, we know not why, and lingers on our memory we
know not wherefore. Whether in the animate, or inanimate
world, it is the cause of our most delicious sensations; it
belongs to the imagination, for it calls up within us, whatever
of poetry may be lurking in the “ hidden mines of thought.” It
is the attribute of all that is most glorious in existence, it is
on the azure sky, it clothes thp earth as with a garment, it
rides triumphant over the purple bosom of the sea. Look
within our hearts, it has originated all that is ideal in our
nature. Beauty is the shadow flung from heaven upon earth,
it is the type of a lovelier and more spiritual existence, and
the broken and transitory lights, that it throws on this our sad
and heavy pilgrimage, do but indicate another, and a better
sphere, where the beautiful will also be the everlasting.
Snuff Takers. —A person observed to his friend, who was
learning to take snuff, that it was wrong to teach one’s nose a
bad habit, as a man generally followed his nose.
A Descending Scale.— Worst of all is it with the first
child in a family ! Oh, it is a happiness and a miracle, and
cannot be enough over-loaded with presents from father and
mother, and aunts and cousins, and all the world. Does it
scream and roar, then it is a budding genius ; is it silent, then
it is a philosopher in its cradle. And—it bites, the sweet
angel!—it has got a tooth! It bites properly. Ah, it is
divine! Then comes the second child :—it is by far less
wonderful already; its cry and teeth are not half so extraor-
dinary. The third comes:—it is all over with miracles now !
the aunts begin to shake their heads and say, “no lack of
heirs in the house ! Nay, nay! may there be only enough to
feed them all.” After this comes a fourth, and a fifth, and a
sixth—yes, then people’s wits are set in full play ! The
parents resign themselves, but the friends defend themselves!
Heart’s-dearest, what is to become of it? The house full of 1
children, a whole half-dozen ! Poor Mrs. This and This—it
makes one quite weak both in body and mind only to think of
it! Yes, yes, ncy friends, people don’t put these things down
in romances, but it goes on in this way in real life l—Mam
Howitt. J
A Neat Toast by a Lady.—“ Improvement in Optics.” —
It is said that by multiplying glasses gentlemen see double ;
by reducing them, they may now see objects worth lookin'* at
that are single.”
Blessings of Freedom. —A coloured man some time since
went to Washington, the capital of that country which boasts
that all men are bom free and independent; there he was
arrested as a slave. Being fortunately able to disprove that,
he was declared a right man ; but, unable to pay the expenses
attendant on his defence, he was actually sold as a slave to
make up the amount. Hail Columbia ! happy land !
The Golden rule of Love. —l am of opinion that in
matters of sentiment there is but one rule, that of rendering the
object of our affection happy: all others are invented by
vanity.— De Stael. J


The Moralist.
MAGISTRATES AND SUBJECTS.
O thou, favourite of heaven, whom the sons of men, thy
equals, have agreed to raise to sovereign power, and set as a
ruler over themselves; consider the ends and importance of
their trust far more than the dignity and height of thy station.
Thou art clothed in purple, and seated on a throne ; the
crown of majesty investeth thy temples; the sceptre of power
is placed in thy hand: but not for thyself were these ensigns
given ! not meant for thine own, but the good of thy kingdom.
The glory of a king is the welfare of his people ; his power
and dominion resteth on the hearts of his subjects.
The mind of a great prince is exalted with the grandeur of
his situation : he revolveth high things, and searcheth for
business worthy of his power. ...
He calleth together the wise men of his kingdom, he con -
sulteth amongst them with freedom, and heareth the opinions
of them all. . . ~ . . ~
He looketh among his people with discernment; he dis-
covered the abilities of men, and employeth them according
to their merits.
His magistrates are just, his ministers are wise, and the
favourite of his bosom deceived him not.
He smiled on the arts, and they flourish: the sciences
improve beneath the culture of his hand.
With the learned and ingenious he delighted himself; he
kindled in their breasts emulation, and the glory of his
kingdom is exalted by their labours.
The spirit of the merchant, who extended his commerce ;
the skill of the farmer, who enriched his lands; the ingenuity
of the artist, the improvement of the scholar ; all these he
honoured with his favour, or rewarded with his bounty.
He planted new colonies, he buildeth strong ships, he
opened rivers for convenience, he formed harbours for safety ;
his people abound in riches, and the strength of his kingdom
increaseth.
He framed his statutes with equity and wisdom ; his sub-
jects enjoy the fruits of their labour in security; and their
happiness consists in the observance of the law.
He founded his judgments on the principles of mercy; but
in the punishment of offenders he is strict and impartial.
His ears are open to the complaints of his subjects; he
restrained the hand of their oppressors, and delivered them
from their tyranny.
His people therefore look up to him as a father, with rever-
ence and love: they consider him as the guardian of all they
enjoy.
Their affection unto him begetteth in bis breast a love of the
public ; the security of their happiness is the object of his care.
No murmurs against him arise in their hearts ; the machi-
nations of his enemies endanger not his state.
His subjects are faithful, and firm in his cause ; they stand
in his defence as a wall of brass ; the army of a tyrant flietli
before them as chaff before the wind.
Security and peace bless the dwellings of his people ; glory
and strength encircle his throne for ever.
MORAL MAXIMS.
ALPHABETICALLY ARRANGED.
No. 22.
Be active, for idleness is the rust of the mind.
Be always at leisure to do good.
Be always more ready to forgive than to return an injury.
Bear, and blame not, what you cannot change.
Bear and forbear is good philosophy.
Bear your misfortunes with fortitude.
Be as careful of the property of others as you would be of
your own.
Be ashamed of your pride, not proud of your shame.
Beauty and chastity are apt to have a mortal quarrel between
them.
Beauty is no longer amiable than while virtue adorns it.
Beauty is the flower, but virtue is the fruit, of life.
Beauty, like glass, is both brittle and irreparable.
Defects and Merits of Others. —To abstain from
bringing into view the infirmities of others, is one of the
marks of negative efficient benevolence. To hold up to
view the accomplishments or merits of others, occupies the
corresponding place in the regions of positive benevolence.—
Bentham.
There are more false facts than false theories in the world.
Select Poetry.
TO THE WORLDLING.
In hours of mirth and heartless glee,
All seems bright and fair with thee;
All looks joy, that wears the show :
But is it thus ? 1 answer, No !
When left alone, thy spirits sink ;
Thy greatest curse, then, is—to think.
When seated in the banquet room,
How void of care, how free of gloom !
Gay is thy smile, and smooth thy brow,
But is thy heart at rest ? Oh, no;
To snap the firm, yet fragile link.
Ye need but just one hour—to think.
The world thy all, admired, and sought,
New pleasures fill thy every thought;
Yet, though caressed, and masked, tliou’lt show
Peace dwells not with thee ; no, oh, no;
From solitude thy mind will shrink,
And curse men’s greatest joy—to think.
No future hope to cheer thee up,
Thy stimulus the festal cup,
Though nought but poison e’er can flow
Into thy draught; poor worldling, no;
For mingled bitterness ye drink,
When sated vice gives time—to think.
Thy morals loose, thy honour gone,
O’er virtues wrecked thou’rt left to mourn ;
Yet, though reflection seems thy foe,
’Tis not in truth! oh, no, no, no ;
’Twould ask repentance: do not shrink !
Thy surest safety is —to think.
— Anonymous.
ALL NATURE PROCLAIMS A DEITY.
There is a voiceless eloquence on Earth,
Telling of Him who gave her wonders birth ;
And long may I remain th’ adoring child
Of Nature’s majesty, sublime or wild ;
Hill, flood, and forest, mountain, rock, and sea,
All take their terrors, or their charms from Thee ;
From Thee, whose hidden but supreme control
Moves through the world, a universal soul.
But who could trace Thine unrestricted course,
Though Fancy followed with immortal force?
There’s not a blossom fondled by the breeze,
There’s not a fruit that beautifies the trees,
There’s not a particle in sea or air,
But Nature owns thy plastic influence there!
With fearful gaze, still be it mine to see
How all is fill’d and vivified by Thee;
Upon thy mirror, earth’s majestic view,
To paint Thy Presence, and to feel it too.
Montgomery.
DOMESTIC LOVE.
Domestic Love ! not in proud palace halls
Is often seen thy beauty to abide;
Thy dwelling is in lonely cottage walls,
That in the thicket of the woodbine hide ;
With hum of bees around, and from the side
Of woody hills some little bubbling spring,
Shining along through banks with harebells dyed ;
And many a bird, to warble on the wing, [fling.
When morn her saffron robe o’er heaven and earth doth
O love of loves! to thy white hand is given
Of earthly happiness the golden key ;
Thine are the joyous hours of winter’s even,
When the babes cling around their father’s knee;
And thine the voice that on the midnight sea
Melts the rude mariner with thought of home,
Peopling the gloom with all he longs to see.
Spirit! I’ve built a shrine; and thou hast come,
And on its altar closed—fcr ever closed thy plume!
CHOLY.


jSottce.
The Editor does not hold himself responsible for the opinions and
assertions contained in the correspondence and contributions in-
serted in the Colonial Literary Journal.
Notice to CCoricsponU^ntS.
"J. P. W.’s” Verses will be inserted.
Our Poetical Correspondents must excuse any delay which may
take pi ice in the promised publication of their compositions.
Our Correspondents are requested to observe that the Colonial
Literary Journal Office is now removed to No. 316, Pitt-
street North, (opposite A. Foss' Chemical Drug, and Grocery
Establishment) where all communications to the Editor may be
forwarded (post paid).
CATALLACTICS.
Mercantile Inadequacy—Dowsing the Exchanges
—Remedy for the Evil of an Excess of Exports
over Imports.
By and by, the customary decline in the Exchanges
may be expected. Indeed, it is already rumoured
that the price of bills on England will be lowered
this season to 10 per cent, discount. It is also said
that an increase of 2 per cent, will taketplace in the
rate of Bank discounts. These effects are usually
attributed to mercantile inadequacy as the most
obvious cause. And no doubt the inability of the
existing merchants to make advances, or purchases in
exports, from their own capital, does give to the
Banks a great facility in altering—a virtual mono-
poly in managing—the Exchanges of the colony.
It is in the nature of human things that these
potent cambists should exercise their power more
with a view to their own advantage than to that of
the public ; and more severely than if they were
checked by competition. Last year, however, it must
be acknowledged that the important service which
they rendered to this community was cheaply pur-
chased at the rate of 5 per cent. —which was the rate
of discount of Exchange during the last wool season.
Whether 10 per cent, may not be too great an ex-
action this year, we shall not pronounce an opinion,
but will submit a few observations respecting the
more deeply seated cause and unavoidable workings
of these monetary fluctuations, to enable our readers
to judge for themselves.
We say that the circumstances of the colony in its
external relations have been such, for some time past,
and are such now, as to warrant, to a reasonable
degree, this tax on the sale of our export production.
The imports during 1843 fell short of the exports
about (let us say) a quarter of a million. It is pro-
bable the balance of trade with England will be in
our favour, assuming the wool clip of 1844 to be in-
cluded, by about half a million on the year now
current.
Bills on England to this amount will therefore be
unsaleable ; or, if that be not exactly the case, pro-
duce to this amount will be sent home on account of
the colonists, without advance ; that is, to wait returns
in the course of trade, which may be estimated at ten
or perhaps twelve months. Twelve months’ interest
would therefore seem a fair deduction in the case of
making an advance on wool. But as the deduction
is virtually made on the whole quantity of exports
purchased or advanced on in the colony, and not
merely on the difference between the exports and im-
ports, a much less rate (perhaps a third or a half of a
years interest) will be sufficiently remunerative. But
there are some minor circumstances which tend
slightly to augment the rate of discount at the active
shipping season, and to lessen it, or even to create a
premium, at other seasons. The chief of these is,
the inequality or variation in the ratios subsisting
betwixt the imports and exports at such different
seasons —the consumption of imported commodities
being more uniformly spread over the year, and the
consequent demand for remittances more steady, while
the fund, fountain, or foundation from which re-
mittances proceed, is available only during the three
or four summer months.
Strictly speaking, goods received on commission
merely, are not imports, so as to affect the Exchanges,
until it is requisite to remit for them ; and wool may,
by being advanced on under the Preferable Lien Act,
become of the character of an export before it is
shorn, provided the advance is made from external
sources. The Exchange may thus chance to be
affected by negotiations relative to importations and
exportations that take place in a different year. Until
the clearances of old debts effected by the Insolvent
Act are completed, we cannot accurately ascertain
the balance of money transactions. All dividends in
bankrupt estates, dividends on Bank and other stock,
mortgage interests, &c., payable from the colony to
England, have the same operation as importations.
In short, they are money obligations.
It follows from this view of the subject, that every
sheep-owner who sells his wool here, or takes an ad-
vance on it, pays a certain per centage for the accom-
modation, and every one who ships his wool home on
his own account, loses the use of the proceeds for
twelve months. Betwixt these plans, the settlers or
squatters who are in a condition to exercise a choice,
will choose, according as they have or have not the
means of employing the money to sufficient advan-
tage. In their choice they will, in some degree, be
guided by the rate of homeward freight. Should this
(from the anticipated scarcity of tonnage) rise to 3d.
a lb., which is an increase equivalent to about 10 per
cent, on the value in the colony of the wool, they
will perhaps delay their shipments. The effect of
this delay will be to mitigate both the discount of
Exchange and the freight. But store charges and
loss of interest will be incurred.
If the largeness of the Bank deposits and the small-
ness of the currency be any indication of the inability
to employ capital to advantage, we may say that the
ability does not exist at this time.
Possibly, however, it is not so much a defect of the
means of beneficially using money, as a want of the
disposition to do so, that is represented by the largeness
of these deposits, and by this contracted currency.
Obviously then, when what is called the balance
of trade is in our favour, unless at the same time we
take care to provide the means of absorption of the
balance, by increasing the imports, we will pay a
certain tax for our augmented money wealth, and the
more we permit the balance to be in our favour, the
heavier will this Exchange-tax become. It is con-
ceivable that the discount of Exchange may increase
to a full year’s interest at the colonial rate, while yet
the colonists may have much money in England
seeking investment. But on the other hand, the
colonial rate of interest (apart from the influence of
monopolies) will fall to little more than the English
rate. And if our reasoning be correct, when the dis-
count of Exchange increases, the rate of interest


should not increase : if, therefore, the peculiar state
of trade warrants the Bank to douse the Exchanges,
we must pronounce their raising the rate of interest
to be unwarrantable and inconsistent.
For the sake of economy, therefore, the colonists
ought to keep up the consumption of imported com-
modities of a useful, improving, and productive de-
scription, to somewhat like an equality with the
exportable ones. We say of a useful, improving, and
productive description, because we think we may as
well pay the tax in the way above stated, as expend
our money in the sensually extravagant manner it has
heretofore been done.
For the same reasons, we are no advocates for the
cultivation or manufacture of anything within the
colony, which we can bring at less cost from abroad.
How then would we proceed to relieve our sheep-
GW’ners of their anticipated plethora of money wealth 1 ?
Before we answer this question, we will pause to con-
sider some other points.
GAFFER GRAY.
ON THE COMPOSITION OF THE EARTH.
The ground on which we stand, and which is usually
denominated the earth, appears to us as a large solid
mass, but is, notwithstanding this com-
pound of solid, liquid, and aeriform matter in itself,
without taking into account the water on its surface,
or the atmosphere which surrounds it. The parts of
the earth with which we are acquainted do not exceed
eight miles in depth, that being the lowest excavation
yet made by miners. The solid parts of this globe
are metals, minerals, granite, and flint; the aeriform,
are the different gases ; the liquid, is water.
The component parts of the earth have been scien-
tifically arranged, amounting to nine in number.
The names they bear are, silica, alumina, barytes,
lime, magnesia, strentites, yttria, glucina, and zin-
conia. These portions of earth are usually found as
oxides, as are also most of the metals ; oxygen being
the most abundant elementary substance known-, it
forms more than half the penetrable matter of the
globe. Sili ca, alumina, and lime, bear the greatest
propoition in the varieties of earth ; the other sub-
stances being comparatively much less in quantity,
and inferior in value and utility ; nevertheless all
the immense variety of soils, all rock*, marble, flint,
and stones, from precious stones to the commonest
pebbles, have one or other of these earths as their base,
and often more than one-, but without one or other of
these bases nothing is produced. Infinitely various
are their combinations, and various the natural pro-
cesses continually going on ; still the same laws
regulate their actions and effects, and though in many
cases we cannot understand the secret operations of
nature, we know that the regular arrangements of
particle with particle, and atom with atom, is ever
going on in undisturbed order throughout creation.
Sir Humphry Davy established the fact by his
experiments, that the earths are compounds of a
metallic body with oxygen, or metallic oxides.
Flinty earth is called silica: it is found in most
rocks and mountains, and is altogether the most
abundant earthy substance known. Flint or silica
is so hard, as to give sparks of fire when struck with
s eel, and requires the greatest heat that art can pro-
cure to melt it in any degree. The sand of the sea
shore, and indeed almost all sand, consists entirely
of silica, and this earth forms the chief ingredient of
flint, and when rocks or even mountains are, in
the course of ages, decomposed, broken up, and re-
duced to fragments by the effects of wind, rain, frost,
and the air,silicious earth is the matter which remains,
forming beds of stones and sand. Many other parts
of the rocks, uniting with this sand, act as a cement,
by binding the particles of silica together. Silica
may be said to be the. bones of the earth, for like the
bones of animals it is the last to crumble down.
More than one half of the crust of the globe may be
considered as consisting of this earth. Silica reduced
to powder by chemical operations is of a white colour;
the union of this white powder with either of the
alkalies potash or soda, forms a salt, and is called
silicate of potash, or silicate of soda. 'Silicates of
potash or soda are the ordinary glass used for all the
purposes to which that frangible material can be
applied. Silica when mixed with clay is also the
basis of all earthenware. Rock crystal, or quartz
and flint, are very pure varieties of silica, also the
amethyst, opb.l, and many other precious stones con-
sist chiefly of this earth. Glass, pottery, and porce-
lain, in all their varieties, are combinations of silica
w r ith other earths.
B.
MATHEMATICS.
No. IX.
[Continued from page 285.]
But this hesitation and doubt may partially he re-
moved by considering, that if we have not had
sufficient leisure to devote to the sciences, or a science,
so much the more ought we to feel disposed to give
full credence to those -who have devoted their whole
lives and energetic talents to the elucidation of the
grand object in view—and not in vain ; who have,
after the laborious research of ages, brought the
science towards maturity. We are aware that
astronomers have calculated eclipses, and the returns
of planetary bodies, long before their occurrence. We
are aware of the results of predictions which come under
our observations daily : all proclaim the triumphs of
science, and immortalize the names of its contributors.
So far, we cannot help acknowledging, although in-
clined to be sceptical, the truth of astronomical
deductions, which ought, also, to give us confidence
in the whole of what celebrated men have advanced
coolly and independent of imaginative colouring;
men who have spent their lives in investigating the
laws which regulate the heavenly bodies, and who,
by their continuous labours, have rendered the way
easy and delightful to all who may be anxious to
study the science. Why should we hesitate to adopt
implicitly Sir Isaac Newton’s theories, as completed
by French astronomers, and enriched by that lumi-
nary’s contemporaries and successors in Britain. —
All the eclipses which have happened of late years
were foretold half a century ago. Dr. Halley
predicted the transit of Venus seventy years before-
hand ; he also calculated the periodical returns of a
comet, and ascertained that it occupied the space of
76 years; it is, consequently, distinguished by the
appellation of Halley’s comet. The returns of other
comets have likewise been accurately foretold by
different astronomers. All these predictions and their
verified results ought to convince the sceptical that
, Astronomy does not consist of theory only, but of
I theory pro' ed by practice, and therefore such as can


he depended on as being correct; and this any indi-
vidual may satisfy himself of, namely, that the
science is founded on the principles of nature itself.
In such an important and interesting science as
Astronomy it will be necessary, as far as our limits
permit, to glance at its history, to trace its origin
and improvement, and finally to examine the magni-
ficent structure erected on the labors of ages.
In tracing the antiquity of Astronomy we are led
to this conclusion, that it was coeval with creation
itself; for the antediluvians, from their longevity,
must have had an intimate acquaintance with the
apparent motions of the heavenly bodies ; but the
Chinese, Indians, Chaldeans, and Egyptians particu-
larly claim the honor and merit of originality.
The Chinese, who in their vanity claim to be
direct descendants from Noah, date their era of
astronomical science from the period of the flood ;
allowing them this much, we may easily grant them
another claim, namely the discovery of the pole star
by their celestial Emperor, Hong-ti, Noah’s grandson.
Thai the Chinese possess manuscripts on the subject,
bearing a very ancient date, is an undoubted fact:
someof our missionaries having met with astronomical
calculations so far back as 200 b. c. But if we con-
sider how the Chinese are attached (even to venera-
tion) to the customs of their forefathers ; if we.
consider that they are separated both by ignorance,
pride, and even geographical position, from the
rest of mankind, that is, comparatively speaking,
we must feel inclined to deny their having any
extensive knowledge of this science ; as a proof of which
we know that they are indebted to Europeans for
being able to calculate eclipses, and for removing the
absurd idea they entertained concerning them. Though
the superstition has exploded, they still retain the
ceremony from blind attachment to anything bearing
the stamp of age. The custom alluded to, arose
from a superstitious idea that, during an eclipse, the
darkness proceeded from the shadow of the celestial
d ragon approaching to wards the lumineary; they further
held that this animal was drawing near with intent
to devour it; therefore, on the commencement of an
eclipse, the chief officers or mandarins threw them-
selves prostrate, with apparent violence, knocking
their heads against the ground to the tune of clashing
of cymbals, shouts, and every imaginable confusion
of sounds, in order to frighten the celestial monster
from his dire purpose.
We now turn to consider the Indian’s claim to
priority of invention and discovery. An undoubted
merit for very early observations they justly claim,
though their knowledge must of course have been
limited ; but La Place, in his system of the world,
says, “ they must rank amongst the earliest
observers of the heavens,” and allows them rather
an extensive knowledge.
Though we admit the merit of early observation
to other nations, yet to the Chaldeans we feel most
inclined to grant the palm—which the others claim
—judging from history, and from their locality, that,
at least, if the science be not indebted to them for its
origin, 'it manifestly is for its improvement. They
themselves claimed an antiquity beyond that of the
world, namely, of having observed the heavens during
the space of 473,000 years : that they possessed a
series of observations, bearing an exceedingly early
date, we learn from Ptolemy, who speaks of some as
having been made 700 b.c. From the Chaldeans the
Phoenicians received their knowledge of Astronomy ;
and it is worthy of remembrance, that they were the
first to apply the knowledge, thus transmitted, to the
purposes of Navigation, directing their course, princi-
pally, by the pole star.
In Egypt, also, Astronomy was assiduously cul-
tivated by the priests. Simplicius, who flourished
during the reign of Justinian, asserted that they began
to observe the heavens 1500 b. c. ; but, of course, their
knowledge could not go farther than the apparent
motions of heavenly bodies. From Egypt the science
was transmitted to the Greeks, whose singular thirst
for knowledge urged them to travel everywhere in
search of it. Greece, of all the nations of antiquity,
was most celebrated for bringing a science towards
maturity, when once transmitted to its genial soil.
As to the exact period when the Greeks commenced
making any progress in the science, there is some
doubt, but that they had an early acquaintance with
the classification of the stars, we learn from Hesiod,
who existed 700 b. c., for he speaks of five constel-
lations : probably their knowledge at that time was
limited to the above number; to these were added or
enumerated by Homer, Bootes, and Ursa Major, but
Sir Isaac Newton was of opinion that tlrey had a more
extensive acquaintance with this necessary part of
Astronomy.
T. L. D.
THE MISSIONARY SHIP JOHN WILLIAMS.
[communicated.]
It was our intention to have made some few remarks upon the
arrival of the above named vessel in our last issue. There
are so many pleasing thoughts, which naturally arise in our
minds when contemplating both this ship and its objects, that
we scarcely know where to begin, and, having commenced, we
shall be equally at a loss to know where to conclude. There
are some who may express surprise that we should experience
this difficulty, and, perhaps, they may be justified in doing so.
For our own part, however, we must attach an importance to
the subject of more than ordinary magnitude ; and when we
state that in the John Williams we behold the greatest triumph
of Christian principle which modern times have presented to
our gaze, our readers will be able, in some measure, to sym-
pathise with us in our views. Beautiful as the vessel un-
doubtedly is—and warmly as her symmetry has been admired
by nautical observers—to us every rope, every spar, every
proportion, possesses a charm loftier and holier than can be
drawn from mere critical inspection. Who cannot picture in
his mind, whilst gazing upon her undoubted beauties, the
savage civilized—the heathen christianized—the idolater
converted—and the moral darkness, which has hung over a
vast portion of the globe from the first dawn of the creation,
passing swiftly away before her onward march ? The Martyr
of Erromanga has been placed upon her bow to direct, as it
were, her steps across the rude ocean ; and it is not too much
to suppose that his spirit deigns at times to rest upon a vessel
peculiarly his own—his own by name—his own by his death—
his own by the work in which she is engaged !
We said, the appearance of this vessel in our harbour on
her way to the various sessionary stations, was a triumph of
Christian principle, which every true Protestant cannot but
hail with feelings of pleasure, if not of rapture. That so noble
a monument of Christianity should have been produced, and
by children too, is truly delightful. The vessel is no proof of
the wealth of England—it is no proof that persons of influence
and property are willing to give bountifully towards this noble
enterprise of spreading the holy gospel—it is no proof of this,
although there have been many such instances placed upon
record; but it is a proof of the zeal and energy of Sabbath-
school children, for the glory of their Divine Master—it is a
proof of the mighty effects which may be expected from these
praiseworthy institutions—it is a proof that divine wisdom has
selected the weak, and the humble, to confound the wise
and, it is a proof that, in spite of all the efforts of men to the


contrary, Christianity will progress until all nations are enlisted
under the wide banner of peace.
This interesting vessel, the John Williams , with several
missionaries—all °of whom, we believe, are monuments of
Sunday-scbool utility—sailed, as most of our readers are
aware, on Thursday morning last. She was convoyed by the
CornuUa steamer, kindly lent by J. P. Robinson, Esq., M.C.,
for the occasion. Mr. Crook commanded her, who also gave
his valuable services free of charge. These gentlemen are
deserving of great praise for the liberal manner in which they
have acted. There must have been at least two hundred per-
sons on board the Cornubia when the John Williams was
cleared in Watson’s Bay.
The day was exceedingly propitious. A light wind from
the N.E. blew refreshingly across the waters, whilst the mimic
waves danced merrily on, seeming, by their liveliness and
vivacity, to partake of the character of the vessel that floated
upon their bosom, and to be at peace with all mankind. In-
deed, there was need of merriment somewhere for many and
many a heart was full to overflowing, as the silent tear
but too forcibly evinced. We have witnessed many a parting
and maybe have been interested in some—but we never
remember to have seen anything more exquisitely touching
than the one we are contemplating. The “God bless you ”
of even the apparently unconcerned, had a sincerity in its
tone which could not be mistaken ; and we may safely affirni
that there was no one soul on board that boat whose heart did
not silently and fervently respond “ Amen” to the impressive
benediction of Dr. Ross. The vessel was accompanied some
distance to sea, and was at length left to pursue her way
amidst the hearer cheers of all.
And may she be protected by Him at whose command both
winds and waves are still; and for the extension of whose
glory she is now traversing the mighty ocean.
$ *
[This was intended, as will be apparent, for insertion in our
last publication. We have omitted a portion of it which ap-
peared to us rather objectionable.—Ed. C. L. J.]
AUSTRALIAN FABLES.
No. I.
Amongst the Fish, the other day,
That sporting in the sunny ray,
Invited me with hook and line,
To waste some hours of precious time—
A great commotion I observed,
As though their race had been disturbed ;
For round my bait, of every kind
Were frisking—each, but half in mind
To seize the morsel—still deferr’d,
As tho’ some treachery was feared.
At last a greedy yellowtail
Was caught, and loudly did he wail
His fate; but all in vain—for he
Was haul’d from out his native sea,
And from the stern-sheets of the boat
Pour’d forth his ’plaint with trembling note.
Now, if a fish one thing has said,
lie may another; so I prayed
My little friend the cause to tell—
What was the motive, what the spell—
Why all the fish, as well as he,
To-day were frisking in such glee;—
And what they had to do, to make
Them all refuse my bait to take ?
“ Well, if I tell, you’ll let me go,
To join their sports again below ?”
“ Agreed !” 1 cried, rejoiced to find
I’d caught a fish of speaking kind.
“ Then,” yellowtail said, “ you must know
“ The fishes have, far down below,
“ A splendid City—wide it spreads,
“ From Cockle Bay to Sydney Heads—
“ From Miller’s Point to Billy Blue—
“ ’Neath Mossman’s Bay and Woolloomooloo.
“ Huge caves are there, where whales may play,
“ Rocks where the sharks in ambush lay,
*• Green shady spots, where thousands dwell
“ Of fish that you men’like so well; —
“ Snappers, and mullet, whiting, bream,
“ With thousands you have never seen.—
“ This City lately claimed its right
“To rule its own affairs : not quite
“ Twelve months ago, their first Lord Mayor
“ Was voted in the civic chair; —
“ Alderman Whale the seat obtained,
“ And hoped to keep what he had gained!
“ This is the day on which we choose
“ Our new Lord Mayor, —and ’twas the njws
“ Who had the election gain’d, that made
‘•'The sporting which you saw displayed.
“ The last year’s Mayor—the Whale—had tried
“ To get such interest on his side
“ As should secure his own return; —
“ But other fish with ardour burn
“ To serve their fellow fish, and share
“ The honour of our civic chair.
“ The Lobster one, a knowing blade,
“ Who, sometimes black and sometimes red,
“ Can sometimes talk both wit and sense,
“ But bites hard when he takes offence.
“ The Shark, the third, who wished to be
“ Raised to the highest dignity
“ To which the fish have power to raise
“ One of themselves ; and to his praise
“ He spoke them fair; that while he could
“ Anywhere else procure his food,
“ Not one in all that Council hall
“ Into his jaws this year should fall!
“ The Shark and Lobster only chose
“ To stand the contest: then arose
“ So loud disputes, you would have thought
“ That all the fish themselves had wrought
“ Into distraction, for they guessed
“ That if the Lobster power possessed
“ He would not use it right, but give
“ All preference to the lobster tribe.—
“ While all were trembling with dismay,
“ A lucky vote obtained the day !
“ Councillor Crab, sidling along*
“ Voted for Shark, and voted wrong;—
“ For sure it is he meant to place
“ More confidence in his own race,
“ Than by his vote turn Lobster out —
“ Yet so it was! and oh, the shout
“ That echoed from the Council hall
“ When Chairman Whale announced to all
“ That Shark was Mayor ! Now let me go—
“ I’ve told you everything I know,
“ And perhaps some other day I’ll come
“ And tell you how our Mayor goes on!”
“ Well done, my little friend,” I cried,
Then dropped him in the dark blfle tide —
And he was quickly found, I trow,
Among his frisking mates below,
To tell how he’d been caught, and why
He had regain’d his liberty.
May not we men a lesson learn,
That like the fish, —so, in our turn,
Those who we place o’er us to rule
Will teach us that we play the fool ?
For, whether Lobster, Shark, or Whale,
Beneath temptation they may fail ;
And tho’ Shark may not eat us quite,
Still, like the Lobster—he can bite.
EXTRACTS.
Industrious England. Not only is the proportion of
persons in the community who pass their lives in active
industry, labouring with their hands or their heads, greater
in this than in almost every other well-peopled country in
Europe, but the amount of skilled labour performed in a
given time by any given number of our countrymen is com-
monly greater than accomplished by the like number of any
other people in Europe. To this circumstance it is in great
part owing, that with a higher rate of daily wages for fewer
hours of toil than are required in other countries, our manu-
facturers have been able, under otherwise adverse circumstances,
to maintain the superiority over their rivals. Many of those
rivals, both in France and in Germany, have contrived to
possess themselves of our best machines, notwithstanding the
legal prohibition to their exportation; but, having hitherto
been unable to imbue their workmen with the degree of energy
and skill by which the English artisan is distinguished, are in


general unable to compete with us in any but in the commonest
fabrics. The proportion of persons in the United Kingdom
who pass their time without applying to some gainful occu-
pation is quite inconsiderable. Of 5,812,276 males, twenty
years of age and upwards, living at the time of the census of
1831, there were said to be engaged in some calling or profes-
sion, 5,466,182, as follow : —ln agriculture, 2,471,110 ; in trade
and manufactures, 1,888,768 ; in labour, not agriculture,
698,588 ; in domestic service, 132,811 ; as bankers, clergymen,
professional men, &c., 275,904; thus leaving unemployed only
346,094 ; or rather less than six per cent, at the whole, which,
assuming that the proportionate number at each age continued
the same in 1831 that it was found in 1821, is not quite a
quarter per cent, beyond the number living in 1831 who were
seventy years of age and upwards. It is probable that this
number of unemployed persons is somewhat understated, and
that noblemen and gentlemen residing upon their estates,
many of whom entrust to agents everything connected with
business employment, are reckoned among the number of those
engaged in agriculture, but, if it be the case, it cannot very
greatly alter the calculation.— Porter's Progress of the Nation.
Mother Country. —Squire (said he,) it is impossible for
us to contemplate this country that now lies before us, without
strong emotion. It is our fatherland. I recollect when I
was a colonist, as you are, we were in the habit of applying to
it, in common with Englishmen, that endearing appellation
“ home,” and I believe you still continue to do so in the
provinces. Our nursery tales taught our infant lips to lisp in
English, and the ballads that first exercised our memories,
stored the mind with the traditions of our forefathers: their
literature was our literature, their religion our religion, their
history our history. The battle of Hastings, the murder of
Becket, the signature at Runymede, the execution at Whitehall;
the divines, the poets, the orators, the heroes, the martyrs,
each and all were familiar to us. In approaching this country
now, after a lapse of many, many years, and approaching it too
for the last time, for mine eyes shall see it no more, I cannot
describe to you the feelings which agitate my heart. I go to
visit the tombs of my ancestors ; I go to my home, and my
home knoweth me no more. Great and good, and brave and
free are the English ; and may God grant that they may ever
continue so !”—Sam Slick in England.
Imperial Presents. l —The presents which have been sent
to Queen Victoria from the Emperor of China consist of
golden bedsteads and a quantity of silk of a sort which has
never yet been seen in Europe. There was likewise two ear-
drops worth ;£ 1,000 each ; and a shawl worked in needle-work,
with every kind of beast on it known to the Chinese; besides
14 large cases, each weighing 14 cwt., and a small box of
jewellery.
COESIVSRRCIAZ. REVIEW.
Not the slightest improvement has manifested itself in our
markets, on the contrary, business during the past week has
been characterized by inactivity, the sales effected have been
confined to actual requirements, and are not worth enumerating.
Wool. —The shearing has now fully commenced, several
bales of the new clip have arrived in excellent condition, free
from dirt or grease, which realized from Is. 2d. to Is. 3d. per
pound, the prospects of this market continue very cheering.
Tallow. —Good samples sell readily from 245. to 28s. per
cwt. the figure varying according to quality and packing.
Hides.— lf well cured are saleable from 7s. to Bs. each.
Wheat and Flour.— The market is very much depressed
without any sign of improvement.
Maize. —The demand for this article is at present moderate,
owing to the abundant supply of Hay and green fodder.
Hay.—The market has been plentifully supplied, the price
is but nominal.
The price of dairy produce has declined considerably.
Butter is very plentiful, and may be quoted from Bd. to lOd.
per lb, ; good quality only is saleable.
Other articles of colonial produce remain withont altera-
tion in price.
B. S. LLOYD
Commission Agent, Bridge-street,
November 20tli, 1844',
Shipping Intelligence.
ARRIVALS.
November 13.—The schooner William, 100 tons, Captain
Freeman, from Moreton Bay the 3rd instant, with cedar.
November 15.—The steamer Shamrock, 200 tons, Captain
Gilmore, from Port Phillip the 7th, Launceston the 11th, and
Twofold Bay the 14th instant.
November 15.—The barque Mary, 364 tons, Captain Mac-
donald, from the Whaling' Grounds, (having left Sydney the
4th October, 1841) with 1830 barrels sperm oil.
November 15.—The steamer Maitland, 103 tons, Captain
Parsons, from Port Macquarie.
November 14.—The steamer William the Fourth, 53 tons,
Captain Wiseman, from the Clarence River.
November 16.—The schooner Jane, 42 tons, Captain Steele,
from Moreton Bay the 7th instant, with cedar.
November 20.—The schooner Oratavo, 91 tons, Captain
Hay, from Port Nicholson 10th October, with merchandise.
DEPARTURES.
November 13.—The schooner Columbine, Captain Stratton
for the South Sea Islands.
November 13.—The ship Thomas Lowry, Captain Graham,
for London.
November 14.—The brig Bee, Captain Unthank, for Wel-
lington, New New Zealand.
November 15.—The schooner Ariel, Captain Lewis, for
Port Nelson via Towfold Bay.
November 16.—The brig William, Captain Thom, for
Launceston.
November 17.—The schooner Waterlily, Captain Hayle, for
Hobart Town.
November 18.—The brig Sarah, Captain Espinasse, for
Hongkong.
November 18.—The barque Elizabeth, Captain Jones, for
the South Sea Islands.
November 20.—The barque Columbus, Captain Hutchinson,
for the Whaling Grounds.
*** The brig Portenia, for the South Seas, was dropping
down the harbour at sundown. °
JWarrtagcs.
On the 12th instant, at St. Lawrence’s Church, Sydney, bv
the Rev. W. H. Walsh, A.M., Mr. Henry Ginn, Architect, to
Jane, daughter of the late W. Balmain, Esq., of Her Majesty’s
Medical Staff, and niece of W. Cubitt, Esq., of London.
On the 12th instant, in St. Philip’s Church, Svdney, by
the Rev. Dr. Cowper, Arthur West, Esq., Surgeon 99th Regt;,
to Ellen Elizabeth, second daughter of Henry Patrick lsdell
Esq., of Rockbrook, County Westmeath, Ireland.
COIOJTIAL JOiyRSTAX,.
BINDING.
THE Publishers have been requested by several subscribers
to make arrangements for the binding of the first Vol.
of the Colonial Literary Journal, which will be completed with
4ie Twenty-sixth Number. Subscribers are informed that
the Publishers will be ready to receive copies to be bound to
order, by which, from the number already engaged for, a con-
siderable saving will be effected to each individual.
SSSFQRTAK-T.
ALL sorts of Brass Castings supplied at Is. per pound,
Cash ; if booked Is. 3d. per pound. Patterns, if made
charged for. • ’
C. M. CRIGHTON,
Kent and Clarence Streets.
TO S.I2T.
APARTMENTS suitable for Offices, together with Stable
and Gig House, if required, situate in a central part of
Pitt-street, near King-street, for particulars apply at the Office
of this Journal.
November 6th, 1844.
TO IST, ~~
A HOUSE, situate in King-street East, containing four
good rooms on the ground floor, one large room and two
bed-rooms on the first floor; kitchen and large cellar under
ground floor; with good dry stores, yard, and other conve-
niences.
This house is situated in a central part of the street, and
calculated for carrying on an extensive business. Rent and
other particulars maybe known on application at this Office
or at Mr. Brown’s, grocer, King-street.


THE PARRAMATTA STEAMERS
EMU AND COMET.
From Parramatta at £ past? A.M., 12 (noon) t md £ past 4 P.M.
. From Sydney at 9 a.m., 12 (noon), and 4 past 1 p.M.
HE S E well-known Packets sail
X punctually as advertised, and afford
a safe, comfortable, cheap and expeditious
conveyance for passengers and goods to
and from the interior.
WOOL and other produce transmitted aS
it arrives, and stored/ree at the Commercial Wharf, Sydney;
and, if in quantity, will be delivered alongside any Ship or WharJ
in the Harbour, without additional charge. , _
Apply at Parramatta, on board the steamer Experiment,
in Sydney, at the Commercial Wharf, to
3 J. PATERSON,
Manager.
general printing office.
No. 316, Pitt Street, Sydney.
rpHE above Office having been removed from 133, King-
street, to those commodious premises, No. 31b, 111 i
STREET, (opposite Mr. Foss' Drug and Grocery Establishment)
arrano-ements are completed for the quick and accurate per-
formance of Book Work and Job PRINTING, in all its
branches, and to any extent. . - ,
J. Reading respectfully solicits a continuance of those
favours which have been extended to him during the last tour
years.
K-XIvTC STREET FURNITURE WAREHOUSE.
] lIILL beo-s to call the attention of the public to his
. extensive °stock of Furniture, the whole of which has
been manufactured under his personal superintendence, and
is of the best materials and workmanship
In purchasing at the Establishment of J. H., parties can
depend on being supplied with decent and durable Articles,
at THE LOWEST PRICES IN THE CITY.
SCALES AND WEIGHTS.
rpilE undersigned has been appointed by Mr. Thomas
JL Woolley to adjust Weights and Measures by the stamped
set, sent complete from England by him. Merchants and
others may therefore depend on the correctness of all work
done. Reference is made to Mr. Woolley.
F. R. ROBINSON,
Tin Plate Worker
Opposite the Royal Hotel,
George-street, November 14.
ON SALE, by the Undersigned,—
London bottled sherry (very superior), 16s. per dozen
London bottled port (very superior j, 18s. 6d. per dozen
Invoices of brown and foolscap paper, ironmongery, hard-
ware, and a miscellaneous stock of goods in general use, either
by the package or in small quantities.
ALSO,
Two handsome Bookcases and Books, amongst which vvil
be found the following excellent works :
Penny Cyclopaedia, 24 vols.
Dr. Adam Clark’s Commentaries on the Scriptures, 8 vols.
Christian Biography, 16 vols.
Rollins’ Ancient History, 6 vols.
History of the Church of Christ, 5 vols.
Howe’s Works, complete, (L. M. 5.,) 1 vol.
Mackniglit on the Epistles, (L. M. S.)
Preacher’s Manual (L. M.S.)
Bishop Newton on the Prophecies (L. M. S.)
Camlet’s Dictionary
Ewart on the Psalms, 3 vols.
Lightfoot’s Works
Milton’s Works
Cruden’s Concordance
Tomlin’s Geography
History of England, 2 vols.
Natural History, &c., &c., ffec,
I. M. ILLIDGE, Agent, &c.,
George-street, opposite the Market
N.B.—Goods of all descriptions received for private sale.
November 14.
COLONIAL LITERARY JOURNAL.
SIXPENCE each will be given for clean Copies of the
FIRST NUMBER of the Colonial Literary Journal.
Apply at the Office, 316, Pitt-street.
FSSSH NOVEITSB3.
MRS DAVIES begs to acquaint her friends and the
public, that she has received by late arrivals from
London, two cases of SUMMER MILLINERY, consisting
of a choice assortment of the newest style in fashionable
bonnets, white French chips, and Paris net, transparent
bonnets, plain and drawn bonnets, in every variety.
Two cases Tuscan and Dunstable bonnets
Ditto ditto Leghorn and fancy rice straw bonnets.
Mrs. D. particularly invites an early inspection of the above,
as they will be offered at very reduced prices, so as to ensure a
quick sale.
One case of superior Contille Corsets, of the most approved
make and shape, and peculiarly adapted to this climate.
George-street,
Opposite the Commercial Bank.
BUTTER.
THE weekly supply now exceeds Four Hundred Pounds,
families may therefore be supplied in any quantities at
one shilling and two-pence per pound. The quality superior
to Glenlee.
ROBERT PORTER.
City Tea Warehouse,
November 12.
liM the supreme court.
Sheriff's Office, Sydney,
November , 1 5 th. 1844.
DUGUID V. MOUNTFORD.
ON SATURDAY, the 23rd instant, at noon, at Cross’s Inn,
Windsor, the Sheriff will cause to be sold, all the right,
title, interest, and estate, of the above defendant, in and to all
that parcel of Land, containing by estimation fifty acres, more
or less, situate in the county of Cumberland, parish of Nelson,
colony of New South Wales, bounded on the west by a line
south twenty degrees west, thirty-six chains fifty links; on the
south by a line east twenty degrees south, eighteen chains; on
the east and north by Cattai Creek which was granted by
deed 19tli October, 1831, to John Mackenzie.
Also, all that parcel of Land, containing by admeasurement
sixty acres, more or less, in the district of Nelson, county of
Cumberland, bounded on the north by a line west twenty
degrees north, sixty- five chains, commencing at Carrol’s south-
east corner; on the west by a line twenty degrees west,
twelve chains; on the south by a line east twenty degrees
south, sixty-one chains fifty links; and on the east by a chain
of ponds; being the land promised to William Forester, and
called Belvidere; —unless this execution is previously satisfied.
CORNELIUS PROUT,
Under Sheriff.
Colonial Literary Journal.
Collector for Sydney Mr. Francis Wye.
Our Subscribers are requested to observe that the Quarterly Sub-
sbription to the Journal is made payable in advance. The
present heavy expenses require this. Those therefore who have
omitted to pay their last quarter’s subscription, together with the
present one in advance, are requested to forward the same to the
nearest Agent at their earliest convenience.
Agents for tliis Journal.
Sydney, Mr. W. Jones, Circulating Library, Brickfield-hill.
Parramatta Mr. Hugh Taylor.
Windsor Mr. Walker.
Bathurst Mr. Tress.
West Maitland Mr. Galloway.
Camden, Campbelltown, Penrith, and
Liverpool Mr. C. Lester.
Gunning Mr. Hawthorne.
