

COLONIAL
LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
“ NON TUA TE MOVEANT, SED PUBLICA VOTA.’
Vol. I. No. 4.]
SYDNEY, THURSDAY, JULY 18, 1844.
[Price 4d.
LITERARY PIRACY.
The practice of re-combining the old materials of
literature, without deriving therefrom any new results,
or even causing any material improvement of the order
and method pursued, without doubt deserves dis-
couragement and censure. Such plagiarism —to which
the term of book-making has been contemptuously
applied—there can be no question, is, at the present
time, a common practice, and has been so since the
invention of the art of printing. Nay, before that era,
some of the most ancient authors have been proved to
be extensively guilty of the act of piracy.
It is equally certain, however, that the word “ book-
making;”' so- understood, is very often most grossly
misdirected. This opprobium is often cast upc-n lite-
rary efforts, where new results arise from the new
position of the matter; where research has been ex-
ercised in bringing it forward ; or, at least, an active
and cultivated talent employed in forming its new
arrangement. As books increase, they still generate
the necessity of others; and compilers, though not
among the higher ranks of authors, are labourers
whose services in the field of literature are indis-
pensable : they are often found necessary for the
drudgery, even of the first gathering together and
binding up the sheaves, where others have cut-the
corn.
He who says that he requires no aid to his memory,
and that the repetition of anything which is to be
found in print among the books of his library is
absolutely superfluous, must either deem us very
stupid, if he hopes to gain our belief, or must allow
us to suppose his books very few, and the course of
his studies exceedingly limited. We, for our part,
consider no small benefit gained, in many cases, by
even the addition of a few notes, or a better type and
paper.
The mere use of paste and scissors, the jumbling
together the disjointed parts of books in a different
form, merely by way of disguising the piracy, and for
the mere purposes of lucre, is indeed vile and highly
reprehensible. And every one must observe daily in-
stances of this contemptible abuse.
If circumstances, or a pardonable vanity, induce a
man, who dares not, conscious of his own demerits,
tiust the powers of his own mind —as yet inused to,
if indeed capable of, the effort—to grasp at the fame
of authorship, by re-editing, or drawing largely from,
the works of others, the passion is at least innocent,
and often produces effects useful and laudable. It is,
too, something much better than vanity that fre-
quently generates this exertion. It is often a generous
feeling of duty ; and often a noble desire of a virtuous
intellectual occupation in pursuits productive of public
instruction or pleasure.
We freely admit that persons so employed some-
times mistake the value of their materials, and some-
times when they judge rightly of them', make a false
estimate of the public taste. But for these errors or
misfortunes, no liberal or wise mind will blame their
undertakings ; nor need they despair that full justice
will at length be done them. Time will weigh them
in an impartial balance, and they will find their place
according to their merit.
Surely, the diligence which brings together, and
sometimes' exclusively preserves from oblivion, the
rich choicv 1 morsels of literature, the numerous minute
notices, which they who love to make the past pre-
dominate over the present will always highly value,
should be met, not with detraction that so often
renders nerveless the firmest energies of the mind, but
with open-hearted encouragement and support.
In defence of this view of the subject we make the fol-
lowing appropriate quotation :—“ How useless are the
grains of gold which lie buried in the depths of the mine.
The slavish drudgery of the miner, the wearisome labour
of the essayer and refiner, and the vital power of the
mint, are all necessary to unite and give them purity,
currency, and utility. Thus it is with the gold of
Literature ! How many a precious morsel has been
buried in the ponderous folio of the schoolman, until
sought out, refined, and given to the world by the
most anxious research, and the most studious care, to
become at length stampt and made current by the
power and impress of triumphant genius. Is, there-
fore, the labour to be despised which collects these
grains of the gold of literature, and thus prepares
them for the use of those who would increase their
learning and be wise, yet have not the time or the
means of searching them out for themselves?” To
this, every impartial mind will be constrained to
answer—No!
To be beyond blame and detraction, is to be above
humanity. Let no author, then, despair if there be
many even of deserved credit, whose approbation he
cannot secure; nay, whose sneers and censures he
cannot overcome. Their depreciation cannot finally
injure him, if his claims stand upon a solid basis ; and
their applause, could he have it, would- be vainly
bestowed, if not really his due.
In conclusion—if literary efforts were to be essayed
by none but by men of the first genius, and nothing


were to be said that had been said before, would not
the lovers of new publications be left without rational
amusement ? We might question also whether the
trades of printers and booksellers would not be nearly
annihilated.
But this, is the cant of a set of beings, who are
determined to find fault, and whose malignity it gra-
tifies to deal in censure.
Biography.
THE LIFE OF PYTHAGORAS.
[From Mr. Godwin’s “Necromancers.”
[The name of Pythagoras, partly owing to its antiquity, and
partly to the mysticism attached to it, sounds at this time of
day almost like a thing of fable, and of no importance to
“ men’s business and bosoms.” But a little reflection, and
the treatment of it, as here given, by a man of genius, soon
show us otherwise. The founder of the Platonic philosophy,
who was also a mathematical discoverer, and influences the
commonest movements of science as well as imagination to
this day, here stands before us, as real a man as ever existed,
and, like so many others, at once a great and a weak man, a
teacher of truth and a user of falsehood, and thereby an in-
jurer of his truth and of his fame. The moral is obvious and
affecting.]
The name of Pythagoras is one of the most remarkable in the
records of the human species ; and his character is well worthy
of the minutest investigation, By this name we are brought
at once within the limits of history properly so called. He
lived in the time of Darius and Cyrus Hystaspes, of Croesus,
of Pisistratus, of Polycrates, tyrant of Samos, and Amasis,
King of Egypt. Many hypotheses have been laid down re-
specting the precise period of his birth and death; but as it is
not to our purpose to enter into any lengthened discussions
of that sort, we will adopt at once the statement that appears
to be the most probable, which is that of Lloyd, who fixes his
birth about the year before Christ 586, and his death about
the year 506.
Pythagoras was a man of the most various accomplishments,
and appears to have penetrated, in different directions, into
the depths of human knowledge. lie sought wisdom in its
retreats of fairest promise, in Egypt and other distant coun-
tries. In this investigation he employed the earlier period of
his life, probably till he was about forty, and devoted the
remainder to such modes of proceeding, as appeared to him
the most likely to secure the advantage of what he had
acquired to a late posterity.
He founded a school, and delivered his acquisitions by
oral communication to a numerous body of followers. He
divided his pupils into two classes, the one neophytes, to
whom were explained only the most obvious and general
truths ; the others, who were admitted into the entire confi-
dence of the master. These last he caused to throw their
property into a common stock, and to live together in the
same place of resort. He appears to have spent the latter
part of his life in that part of Italy called Magna Graecia, so
denominated, in some degree, from the numerous colonies of
Grecians by whom it was planted, and partly, perhaps, from
the memory of the illustrious things which Pythagoras
achieved there. He is said to have spread the seeds of poli-
tical liberty in Crotona, Sybaris, Metapontum, and Rhegium,
and from thence in Sicily to Tauromenium, Catania, Agri-
gentum, and Himera. Charondas and Zaleucus, themselves
famous legislators, derived the rudiments of their political
wisdom from the instructions of Pythagoras.
But this marvellous man, in some way, whether from the
knowledge he received, or from his own proper instructions,
has secured to his own species benefits of a more permanent
nature, and which shall outlive the revolutions of ages, and
the instability of political institutions. He was a professed
geometrician. The two theorems, that the internal angles of
every right-angle triangle are equal to two right-angles, and
and that the square of the hypothenuse of every right-angled
triangle is equal to the sum of the squares *)f the other two
sides, are ascribed to him In memory of the latter of these
discoveries, he is said to have offered a public sacrifice to the
Gods ; and the theorem is still known by the name of the
Pythagorean theorem. He ascertained, from the length of
the Olympic course, which was understood to have measured
six hundred of Hercules’ feet, the precise stature of that
hero. Lastly, Pythagoras is the first person who is known to
have taught the spherical figure of the earth, and that we
have antipodes ; and he propagated the doctrine that the
earth is a planet, and that the sun is the centre round which
the earth and the other planets move, now known by the
name of the Copernican system.
To inculcate a pure and simple mode of subsistence was
also an object of pursuit to Pythagoras. He taught a total
abstinence from everything having had the property of animal
life It has been affirmed, as we have seen, that Orpheus,
before him, taught the same thing. But the claim of Orpheus
to this distinction is ambiguous, while the theories and dogmas
of the Samian sage, as he has frequently been styled, were
more methodically digested, and produced more lasting and
unequivocal effects. He taught temperance in all its branches ;
and a resolute subjection of the appetites of the body to con-
templation and the exercises of the mind; and, by the uri-
remitted discipline and authority he exerted over his followers,
he caused his lessons to be constantly observed. There was,
therefore, an edifying and an exemplary simplicity that pre-
vailed, as far as the influence of Pythagoras extended, that
won golden opinions to his adherents at all times that they
appeared, and in all places.
One revolution that Pythagoras worked, was that, whereas,
immediately before, those who were most conspicuous among 1
the Greeks, as instructors of mankind in understanding and
virtue, styled themselves sophists, professors of wisdom, this
illustrious man desired to be known only by the appellation of
a philosopher, a lover of wisdom. The sophists had pre-
viously brought their denomination into discredit and reproach
by the arrogance of their pretensions, and the imperious way
in which they attempted to lay down the law to the world.
The modesty of this appellation, however, did not altogether
suit with the deep designs of Pythagoras, the ascendancy he
resolved to acquire, and the oracular subjection in which he
deemed it necessary to hold those who placed themselves
under his instruction. This wonderful man set out with
making himself a model of the passive and unscrupulous
docility, which he afterwards required from others. He did
not begin to teach till he was forty-eight years of age, and
from eighteen to that period he studied in foreign countries,
with the resolution to submit to all his teachers enjoined, and
to make himself master of their least communicated and most
secret wisdom. In Egypt, in particular, we are told that,
although he brought a letter of recommendation from Poly-
crates, his native sovereign, to Amasis, king of that country,
who fully concurred with the views of the writer, the priests,
jealous of admitting a foreigner into their secrets, baffled him
as long as they could, referring him from one college to
another, and prescribing to him the most rigorous preparatives,
not excluding the right of circumcision. But Pythagoras
endured and underwent everything, till at length their un-
willingness was conquered, and his perseverance received its
suitable reward.
When in the end Pythagoras thought himself fully qualified
for the task he had all along had in view, he was no less
strict in prescribing ample preliminaries to his own scholars.
At the time that a pupil was proposed to him, the master, we
are told, examined him with multiplied questions, as to his
principles, his habits, and intentions, observed minutely his
voice and manner of speaking, his walk and his gestures, the
lines of his countenance, and the expression and management
of his eye, and when he was satisfied with these, then, and not
till then, admitted him as a probationer. It is to be sup-
posed that all this must have been personal. As soon, how-
ever, as this was over, the master was withdrawn from the
sight of the pupil; and a noviciate of three and five, in all
eight years, was prescribed to the scholar, during which time
he was only to hear his instructor from behind a curtain, and
the strictest silence was enjoined him through the whole
period. As the instructions Pythagoras received in Egypt
and the East admitted of no dispute, so in his turn, he re-
quired an unreserved submission from those who heal'd him :
“ the master has said it,” was deemed a sufficient solution to
all doubt and uncertainty.
To give the greater authority and effect to his commu-
nications, Pythagoras hid himself, during the day at least,
from the great body of his pupils, and was only seen by
them . at night. Indeed there is no reason to suppose
that any one was admitted into his entire familiarity. When
he came forth, he appeared in a long garment of the purest
white, with a flowing beard, and a garland upon his
head. lie is said to have been of the finest symmetrical


form, with a majestic carriage, and a grave and awful coun-
tenance. He suffered his followers to believe that he was one
of the gods, the Hyperborean Apollo; and is said to have
told Abaris, that he assumed the human form that he might
the better invite men to an easiness of approach, and a con-
fidence in him. What, however, seems to have been agreed
in by all his biographers is, that he professed to have already
in different ages appeared in the likeness of a man; first, as
jEthalides, the son of Mercury; and when his father ex-
pressed himself as ready to invest him with any gift short of
immortality, he prayed that, as the human soul is destined
successively to dwell in various forms, he might have the pri-
vilege in each to remember his former state of being, which
was granted him. From /Ethalides he became Euphorbus,
who slew Patroclus at the siege of Troy. He then appeared
as Hermotimus, then Pyrrhus, a fisherman of Delos, and,
finally, Pythagoras, He said that a period of time was in-
terposed between each transmigration, during which he visited
the seat of departed souls; and he professed to relate a part
of the wonders he had seen. He is said to have eaten
sparingly and in secret, and in all respects to have given him-
self out for being not subject to the ordinary laws of nature.
(To be concluded in our next.)
PERSONS WHO NEVER HAVE “ENOUGH OF
A GOOD THING.”
[From “ Persons whom Everybody has s&en.”]
Napoleon seemed to be of opinion, that, to deserve
well of her country, a woman could not have too
many children ; and if all sovereign were Napoleons,
the opinion would be perfectly just. As it is, there
happens to be considerable doubt upon the point, as
well in states as families ; but it by no means follows,
while admitting the possibility of a superabundance
of blessings in the nursery, that we should concur
with that scamp of a soldier in Farquhar’s comedy,
who thinks it possible that a man may have “ too
much wdfe.”
Of many other good things, how T ever, “ too much”
is easily to be had. We need not allude to those
gross material excesses, of which five-shilling records,
are magisterially made in the morning. Every one
who has been once tempted to taste the other some-
thing—every one whose cheek has flushed over the
one cool bottle more, will eagerly admit that it is
needless. If they hesitated, we should produce to
their confusion, the evidence of the little blue-coat-
boy who dining at home one day with his brothers
and sisters, astonished them with the splendour of his
appetite, and yet was worried to take more. More !
no, that was impossible. Nature that abhors a va-
cuum, abhors equally three pints to a quart vessel.
Yet he was sorely pressed, and naturally anxious to
gratify affection.
“ Well,” said the brave little fellow 7 at last, looking
fondly, wishingly, and yet half-despairingly at the
dish his heart was full, we may be sure—“ Well—
perhaps if I stand up, I can !”
It was an acute thought of the boy’s —w r e should
rather say, perhaps, it was a beautiful instinct; and
a noble effort it was too that he then made ; he stood
up to it, but it w r as a graceful heroism thrown away—
he couldn’t. J
Let it be a lesson to other how they aim at the
prohibited enjoyment,—too much of a good thing.
When they have been round to a lady’s friends, and
duly circulated the story of her intended elopement—
when they have What-a-pity'd it in one family,
No-wondered it in another, and They-do-say'd the
victim’s reputation everywhere, let them go home and
get a little refreshing sleep after their charitable la-
bours, without troubling themselves to write a kind
note of sympathy, by way of communicating the
tidings to the lady’s mother ; because this is really
too much of a good thing.
These retailers of good things fancy that civil lis-
teners never can have enough of them. The civility
is partly in fault—there is too much of it.
These are the advocates of “ wasteful and ridiculous
excesses,” who would like to gild refined gold and
paint the lily. They think “ Paradise lost” so fine,
that they wish there was more of it—a few more
books, and it would have been delightful —and then
they go and read all that has been written about it,
to eke out the poet’s abbreviated spells. They are of
opinion that a poem is nothing without a vast volume
of notes. When they have read Burns all through,
they sit down to read the glossary, w r hich they enjoy
prodigiously.
They are the people who, at the play, sit out two
farces after seeing the tragedy, encoring a comic song
in the last piece, and calling for “ God save the
Queen” at the close. At the opera they are for hav-
ing every thing repeated, beginning with the over-
ture ; they call for the principal singers to appear
between every act, and three times at the end—to
abide the pelting of a floral storm. When the
ballet begins, they begin to encore ; when it termi-
nates, they are lost in wonder people don’t encore,
not the brilliant points merely —but the ballet: they
are of opinion that two such pieces, with an opera in
Jive acts, would form a charming evening’s entertain-
ment—not a bit too long. They must have too much
of a good thing, or they fancy they have not enough.
Whether they are in favour of two-hour sermons, is
more doubtful. We never heard them express a wish
that the parliamentary debates were lengthened.
History.
ANCIENT HISTORY: SECTION II.
CONSIDERATIONS ON THE NATURE OF THE FIRST
GOVERNMENTS, AND ON THE LAWS, CUSTOMS, ARTS,
AND SCIENCES, OF THE EARLY AGES,
1. The earliest government is the Patriarchal,
which subsists in the rudest periods of society.
The patriarchal government leads by an easy pro-
gress to the monarchical.
The first monarchies must have been very weak,
and their territory extremely limited. The idea of
security precedes that of conquest. In forming our
notions of the extent of the first monarchies, we are
deceived by the word King, which, according to
modern ideas, is connected with an extent of territory
and a proportional power.—The kings in Scripture
are no more than the chiefs of tribes There were
five kings in the vale of Sodom. Joshua defeated in
his wars thirty-one kings, and Adonizedec three-
score and ten.
The regal office w r as in all probability at first
elective. The transmission of the sceptre to the heir
of the last monarch, arises in time, from the experi-
ence of the mischiefs attending frequent elections,
and the disorders occasioned by ambitious men aspir-
ing at that dignity.
The first ideas of conquest must have proceeded
from a people in the state of shepherds, who, neces-
sarily changing their pastures, would probably make
incursions on the appropriated territory of their


neighbours. Such were the Arabian or Phoenician
invaders, who, under the name of Shepherd-kings,
conquered Egypt. But kingdoms so founded could
have little duration, Laws and good policy, essential
to the stability of kingdoms, are the fruit of intellec-
tual refinement, and arise only in a state of society
considerably advanced in civilization.
The progress from barbarism to civilization is
slow; because every step in the progress is the result
of necessity, after the experience of an error, or the
strong feeling of a want.
2. Origin of Laius. —Certain political writers have
supposed, that in the infancy of society penal laws
must have been extremely mild. We presume the
contrary to have been rather the case ; as the more
barbarous the people, the stronger must be the bonds
to restrain them : and history confirms the supposi-
tion, in the ancient laws of the Jews, Egyptians,
Greeks, Homans, and Gauls.
Among the earliest laws of all states are those
regarding marriage ; for the institution of marriage
is coeval with the formation of society. The first
sovereigns of all states are said to have instituted
marriage ; and the earliest laws provided encourage-
ments to matrimony.
Among the ancient nations, the husband purchased
his wife, by money, or personal services. Among
the Assyrians, the marriageable women -were put up
to auction : and the price obtained for the more
beautiful w'as assigned as a dowry to the more
homely.
The laws of succession are next in order to those
of marriage. The father had the absolute power in
the division of his estate. But primogeniture was
understood to confer certain rights.
Laws arise necessarily and imperceptibly from the
condition of society ; and each particular law may
be traced from the state of manners, or the" particular
emergency w hich gave it birth. Hence we perceive
the intimate connexion between history and juris-
prudence, and the light which they must necessarily
throw upon each other. The laws of a country are
best interpreted from its history ; and its uncertain
history is best elucidated by its ancient laws.
3. Earliest methods of authenticating Contracts. —
Before the invention of writing, contracts, testaments,
sales, marriages, and the like, were transacted in
public.—The Jewish and the Grecian histories fur-
nish many examples.— Some barbarous nations
authenticate their bargains by exchanging symbols
or tallies.—The Peruvians accomplished most of the
purposes of writing by knotted cords of various
colours, termed Quipos.— The Mexicans communica-
ted intelligence to a distance by painting.- —Other
nations used an abridged mode of painting,"or hiero-
glyphics. —Before the use of writing, the Egyptians
used hieroglyphics for transmitting and recording
knowledge : after writing, they employed it for veil-
ing or concealing it from the vulgar.
4. Methods for recording Historical Facts , and
publishing Laws. —Poetry and song w r ere the first
vehicles of history, and the earliest mode of promul-
gating laws. The songs of the bards record a great
deal of ancient history •. the law r s of many of the
ancient nations were composed in verse.
Stones rude and sculptured, tumuli and mounds of
earth, are the monuments of history among a barba-
rous people ; and columns, triumphal arches, coins,
and medals, among a more refined.—These likewise
illustrate the progress of manners and of the arts.
5. Religious Institutions. — Among the earliest insti-
tutions of all nations, are those which regard religious
worship. The sentiment of religion is deeply rooted
in the human mind. An uninstructed savage will infer
the existence of a God, and his attributes, from the
general order and mechanism of nature; and even
its temporary irregularities lead to religious venera-
tion of the unknown Powder which conducts it.
Before conceiving the idea of a Being utterly im-
perceptible to his senses, a savage would naturally
seek that Being in the most striking objects of sense
to which he owed his most apparent benefits. The
sun, extending his beneficial influence over all nature,
was among the earliest objects of worship. The fire
presented a symbol of the sun. The other celestial
bodies naturally attracted their share of veneration,
and the storm and the tempest had also their votaries.
The symbolical mode of writing led to many pecu-
liarities of the idolatrous worship of the ancient
nations. Animals, symbolical of the attributes of
Deity, became gods themselves. The same god, re-
presented by different animals, was supposed to have
changed himself into different forms.—The gratitude
and veneration for men whose lives have been emi-
nently useful, joined to the belief of the soul’s immor-
tality, led to the apotheosis of heroes.—Many excellent
reflections on idolatry and polytheism are found in
the book called ‘ The Wisdom of Solomon.’
The priesthood was anciently exercised by the
chief or monarch ; but as an empire became exten-
sive, the monarch exercised this office by his delegates;
and hence an additional source of veneration for the
priesthood. The priests were the framers and admi-
nistrators of the law.
6. Arts and Sciences of the Ancient Nations. —The
useful arts are the offspring of necessity ; the sciences
are the fruits of ease and leisure. The construction
of huts, of weapons of war, and of hunting, are the
earliest arts. Agriculture is not practised till the
tribe becomes stationary, and property is defined and
secured.
The sciences arise in a cultivated society, where
individuals enjoy that leisure -which invites to study
and speculation. The priests, maintained in that
condition by the monarch, were the earliest cultiva-
tors of science. The Egyptian science was confined
to the priests. Astronomy, which is among the
earliest of the sciences, owed its origin probably to
superstition. Medicine was among the early sciences.
All rude nations have a pharmacy of their own,
equal in general to their wants. Luxury, creating
new and more complex diseases, requires a profounder
knowledge of medicine, and of the animal economy.
“SPECIOSA YOCABULA RERUM.”
Enough, more than a man has.
Age, res incognita.
Ugly, plain.
Theft, abstraction.
Neglect, charity.
Bigotry, zeal.
Irreligion, liberality,
b'uicide, temporary insanity.
Drunkenness, rather fresh.
Gambling, play.


THE TWO EMILIES.
A TALE OF LOVE AND PERPLEXITY.
[Concluded from our last.]
It lvas w r hile proceeding one afternoon, on a mis-
sion of this nature, to the cottage of an old Scotch-
woman, a pensioner of Mrs. Betty’s, that Emily and
Ponsonby had been induced to prolong their walk.—
The evening was sultry, almost to breathlessness ;
and as Emily leant upon the arm of her companion,
slowly pursuing their w r ay, a more than usual con-
straint seemed to weigh on the spirits of both. Few
words had been uttered by either, until they reached
blind Margaret’s door, and they felt it a relief when
the old woman appeared, seated in her usual sunny
corner at the end of the house. She arose, and
spreading down her apron, seemed prepared to welcome
them long before the silent pair believed it possible
for her to be aware of their approach, “ Well,
Margaret*, and how are you to-night ?” said Emily
advancing; “ I have brought a friend with me to see
you, and you must tell who it is before he speaks.—
You know I always said you were a witch, Margaret,
and now I am sure of it, for you rose to-night to
receive us before even ‘ Fine Ear,’ in the fairy tale,
could have told we were coming.”
“ Na, na, Miss Emily, I’m no a witch, and as little a
fairy,” said the old woman; “ the gifts which witches
and fairies possessed are no bestowed on mortals now
a-days; yet God has given a sense to the blind which
amaist maks up for that which he has seen fit to de-
prive them of, and I dinna think it needed ony witch-
craft to tell that it was Maister Harry, coming up the
loan, switching the thistles and nettles wi’ his cane,
as he used to do when he was a laddie, and little Miss
Emily would aye be trotting after him. His step is
no sae light to-night as it used to be in ither days,
and yet I would hae kent it amang a thousand !”
“ Thank you, Margaret, for your kind remembrance
of me and my boyish tricks,” said Harry, kindly
shaking hands with the old woman. “ I was not
ware that I was disciplining the thistles to-night.
I think I might have been cured of that bad habit ere
now.”—“And I thought sae too, Maister Harry, for
ye may mind weel it cost you a sair heart when you
was younger than you are the day, and you nearly
whipped out little Miss Emily’s een, driving about
you with your switch—ay, I mind weel how vou
brought the dear bairn in to me, and I couldna mak
out which of you had got the hurt, for you was cry-
ing and she was comforting you—till the sweet bairn
said, ‘ Never mind, Harry, for if I am blind you will
lead me about and promise never to leave me ; and I
shall be far happier than poor old Margaret, for she
has no one to be good to her’—And then you pro-
mised” “ Oh, Margaret, you must not be remem-
bering all the foolish things I said and promised
when I was a boy, said Ponsonby, colouring deeply
“ one gets wiser as they get older.”—“ Aweel, aweel!
see that it be sae, my young gentleman ; but remem-
ber it s ae thing whiles to be wise, and anither to be
honest, and I never saw muckle good come of the
wisdom that made folk no like to hear of their youth-
ful promises.—But winna ye step into the house, Miss
Emily, as ye used to do, for I feel an unco weight in
the , alr > r, “ thinkin g we’ll no be lang without
a. shower ?Indeed,” said Ponsonby, looking at
the sky, it is darkening all around us; Emily, we
must hurry homeward.” Emily, who saw that her
companion was impatient under the ill-timed recol-
lections of poor old Margaret, availed herself of the
threatening appearance of the clouds, to shorten their
visit; so with an assurance to the old woman of
visiting her soon again, they took their leave, and
left the cottage.
They were nearly two miles distant from the
Priory, and Ponsonby observing the fast increasing
darkness, and feeling the sulphurous oppression of the
air, began to fear that the storm would break before
they could reach its shelter. He would have urged
Emily to strike across the wood, as affording a nearer
path, but just when about to propose this measure,
the first flash of lightning broke from the clouds, and
he thought it safer to keep the open fields, even at the
risk of exposure to the coming rain. Emily was no
coward, but the rattling peal of thunder which fol-
lowed the vivid flash, declared how alarmingly close
the danger was, and clinging pale and breathless, to
her companion, she felt the blessing of having such
an arm to support her trembling steps. “ Lean on
me, dearest Emily,” said Ponsonby ; “ try to hasten
your steps; if you can reach the old barn at the end
of the field, it will afford you shelter from the rain
and they quickened their pace with this hope. But
now the clouds burst at once over their heads, the
rain descends in torrents, and when they reached the
old barn, they found that all the protection they could
gain was from an outer wall, for the door was fastened
so securely as to resist all Harry’s most powerful
attempts at forcing an entrance*" In vain he led her
to the most sheltered side of the wall, the violence of
the gale made it impossible for him to screen her
from the drenching rain, and Ponsonby saw with
dismay, her light garments wet through, and clinging
to her slender form.
In a moment he stripped off his CGat, in spite of
Emily’s entreaties to desist, and holding it between
her and the blast, he placed himself as a further shelter
against its fury. At length came a flash of such
startling brightness, that Emily clung to her compa-
nion with convulsive fear, and Ponsonby himself was
thoroughly alarmed. He Ylrew the trembling and
almost lifeless girl to his bosom, and gazing earnestly
on her pale face, he conjured her to open her eyes and
to look at him ! —to speak to him if but a word! —for
her silence and death-like paleness had filled him with
unutterable terror. “ Emily ! you are not hurt ?
you are only frightened ? Oh say so, dearest! speak
to me if it be but a word !” “ No, lam not hurt and
I ought not to be frightened,” said the still trembling
girl; “but, dearest Harry, that flash—that awful
flash ! it seemed to fall so frightfully near to where
you stood. Oh, God! if it had fallen on you!”—
and she looked up at him with an expression of ten-
derness and anguish that thrilled to his inmost soul.
“ Emily, dearest Emily! and was it for me you
feared"? and would you have regretted me—would
you have grieved for me had I been taken from you ?
then grieve for me —then pity me now ! Oh, Emily !
believe me that the stroke which would have laid me
at your feet—which w T ould have purchased for me
those precious tears, w r ould be less terrible than what
I now feel—the bitter, bitter pang, that now we must
part for ever ! Yes, Emily, in this moment of terror,
the sweetest, yet the saddest of my life, I must be
allowed to speak to you —to say all, and then !
Emily, I love you !—deeply, fondly love you ! —nay,


do not stop me now—when I have said this, I have
said all. You know my faith is plighted to another ;
I have been rash—imprudent—against my will un-
faithful. But dishonourable or unprincipled, I cannot
I will not be —I cannot offer you my heart; worthless
as it is, it is the property of another, although filled
with your image alone. Hers it is to keep, or to
reject ; but faithless, rebellious as it is, it cannot be a
gift.to you, I now must lay it open to that injured
one. Oh that I had never seen her, or seen but her
alone !” He paused, overcome with contending feel-
ings •. he looked’at Emily, but her countenance ex-
pressed -no recoiling horror —there was no cold disdain
in her tearful eyes ; she still clung to him with con-
fiding tenderness, and though she wept, they did not
seem bitter tears. He clasped her to his heart : he
felt he was beloved; and tasted for a moment the deepest
bliss this world has to bestow.
It was but for a moment—the next he almost thrusted
her from him. “ Oh, Emily do not look on me thus,
or I shall be a villain !” and he tore himself shudder-
ing from her arms. At this moment, the voice of Mr.
Devereux was heard approaching them, and Ponsonby
hailed it as that of his guardian angel. Too much
agitated to speak, he placed Emily in her father’s
arms, and was hastily retreating, when his guardian
caught him by the arm. “What has happened,
Harry V' enquired the anxious father ; “ are either
of you hurtßut still receiving no reply, he looked
more suspiciously at the conscious pair—the truth
appeared to burst upon him—“ Go, young man,” said
he, in a tone of displeasure —“ go and order the car-
riage here—it is well for some that it is at no great
distance, for neither of you seem very able for much
exertion. It will be ivell also to assume a little more
composure before reaching home ; for there is one
waiting your arrival who may as little comprehend
your present agitation as I do. Emily, your cousin
is come, and Mrs, Hartley’s carriage now waits for
you.” Ponsonby waited to hear no more. Darting
from his guardian, he beckoned for the carriage to
attend them, and plunging into the wood, he took a path
which led him in an opposite direction to the Priory,
The rain had now ceased ; the blue sky appeared
once more, and the last rays of the setting sun were
reflected from a thousand sparkling gems, which bent
the heavy branches to the ground. But the unhappy
Ponsonby heeded not the beauty of the sky, nor yet
the wetness of the tangled wood through which he
forced his way. To remove from Stokely, and from
all it contained, was the only distinct feeling of his
heart. Yet the freshness of the air, and the fragrance
of the woods, allayed by degrees the fever of his mind,
and cooled his burning brow. He reached a summer-
house in the furthest part of the wood, and resolved
to remain there until all chance of meeting-with Emily
should be over. He could not bear the thought of
seeing together the two beings whom on earth he had
best loved and most deeply injured.
Many were the agitated thoughts which tortured
the brain of Ponsonby during this anxious interval ;
but none of them was so painful as the recollection of
the earnest persuasion, by which he overcame the re-
luctant timidity of his young and gentle Emily, and
forced from her a promise of .being his, and his alone ;
and this too without the permission of her uncle.—
He well remembered that this promise was mutual,
arid could he hesitate a moment to perform his part
in it ?—No ! he hated himself for the very thought;
and rose, determined that the night should not close
until all had been confessed to her who held his
plighted faith.
As he drew nigh to the Priory, he was thankful
that the deepening twilight would conceal in some
degree his agitation ; but still reluctant to enter, he
sought a momentary respite by passing into an ad-
joining shrubbery, which surrounded the house. A
glass-door from the drawing-room opened upon a
little lawn, fringed on both sides with flowering
shrubs, and Ponsonby knew that from this opening
he could observe, whether the room was yet lighted
up, or if the family were assembled there. All was
dark within ; but his attention was soon drawn to
another quarter by hearing the voice of Mr. Devereux
in earnest conversation with another person at no
great distance ; in the next moment, he saw the figure
of his guardian, with that of his now dreaded Emily,
at the end of the walk into which he was about to
enter. Ponsonby hesitated for a moment whether he
should approach them ; but hesitation came too late—•
he saw that he was observed ; for Emily, the justly-
offended .Emily, hastily pulled over her face a veil,
which till then had been thrown back. “ She dreads
to look upon me,” thought Harry ; “ perhaps she
already knows how unworthy I am of her—but meet
we mustand without farther delay he advanced
towards the bench upon which they were seated.
His guardian arose to meet him, and, with more of
emotion than of anger in his countenance, held out
his hand to the agitated young man. “ Harry,” said
he, “I am glad you have come at last. Shame and
self-reproach could alone excuse your absence at such
a time ; but if you are forgiven here, I must not be
be obdurate. From this lady I have heard all —all
that I ought to have heard from you long ago ; but I
will spare my reproaches ; you have a powerful ad-
vocate in her breast, whom it would be in vain for me
to gainsay. Take then the heart you gained in in-
fancy—it has never wandered from you— and may
God bless you in each other !” With these words he
took the trembling hand of Emily, and* placing it in
that of Ponsonby, he left them there alone.
“ Emily ! Miss Devereux ! can you forgive me V’
said Ponsonby in extreme agitation, as raising the
passive hand that lay in his, he put it to his lips.—
“ Oh ! call me not by so cold a name,” exclaimed a
voice which thrilled his soul with rapture. “ Oh,
Harry, forgive my part in this deception, and look
upon me !” said the blushing girl, as she threw back
the veil from her face ; and Harry gazed upon each
well-known feature, and clasped to his heart Lis only
love—his first loved —last loved Emily.
The moon was high in the heavens before Emily
and her lover recollected the hour. It was the sound
of music in the drawing-room that first drew their
attention. “Itis my cousin singing to her father,”
said Emily ; “ and now, Harry, you shall see for the
first time this dreaded Emily of whom, poor innocent
thing, we have made such a cat’s-paw ; but it was all
my uncle’s doing, and I believe he did it as much to
punish us for our fault as to prove our affection.
“ Thank God, the punishment and the probation have
ended both so happily,” exclaimed Harry. £ ‘Oh,
Emily, with what unmingled pleasure shall I now
listen to those sweet words,
“ Et l’on revient toujours, toujours,
A ses premieres amours !”


WHY SWEET MUSIC PRODUCES SADNESS.
[An Extract.]
Sweet music, that is to say, “ sweet” in the sense in
which it is evidently used in the following passage —■
something not of a mirthful character, but yet not of
a melancholy one —does not always produce sadness ;
but it does often, even when the words, if it be vocal
music, are cheerful. We do not presume to take for
granted, that the reason we are about to differ with,
or perhaps rather to extend, is Shakespeare’s own, or
that he w r ould have stopped thus short, if speaking in
his own person; though he has given it the air of
an abstract remark ; —but Lorenzo, in the ‘ Merchant
of Venice,’ says, that it is because our “ spirits are
attentive.”
“I’m never merry when I bear sweet music,”
says pretty Jessica.
“ The reason is, your spirits are attentive,”
says her lover ;
“ For do but note a wild and wanton herd,
Or race of youthful and unhandled colts
Fetching mad bounds, bellowing and neighing loud,
Which is the hot condition of their blood ;
If they but bear perchance a trumpet sound,
Or any air of music touch their ears,
You shall perceive them make a mutual stand,
Their savage eyes turned to a modest gaze,
By the sweet power of music.”
How’ beautiful ! But with the leave of this young
and most elegant logician, his reason is, at least, not
sufficient; for how does it account for our being
moved even to tears, by music which is not other-
wise melancholy ? All attention, it is true, implies
a certain degree of earnestness, and all earnestness
has a mixture of seriousness ; yet seriousness is not
the prevailing character or attention in all instances,
for we are attentive to fine music, whatever its cha-
racter ; and sometimes it makes us cheerful, and even
mirthful. The giddier portions of Rossini’s music do
not make us sad ; Figaro does not make us sad ; nor
is sadness the general consequence of hearing dances,
or even marches.
And yet, again, on the other hand, in the midst of
any of this music, even of the most light and joyous,
our eyes shall sometimes fill with tear. How is this ?
The reason surely is, that we have an instinctive
sense of the fugitive and perishing nature of all sweet
things—of beauty, of youth, of life, of all thojse fair
show’s of the world, of which music seems to be the
voice, and of whose transitory nature it reminds us
most when it is most beautiful, because it is then that
we most regret our mortality.
We do not, it is true, say this to ourselves. We are
not conscious of the reason ; that is to say, we do not
feel it with knowingness ; but we do feel it, for the
tears are moved. And how many exquisite criticisms
of tears and laughter do not whole audiences make at
plays, though not one man in fifty shall be able to
put down his reason for it on paper.
Varieties.
“ I meant to have told you of the hole” said a man to his
friend, who stumbled into a pit full of water. “No matter
now (says the other, blowing the mud and water out of his
mouth,) I’ve found it.”
“ You’re always in love,” as the compositor said to the
letter O.
“ You be hanged,” as the washerwoman said to the clothes.
A Tragedy of Absurdity. —We read, saith Bernardin
Scardeon, that in the family of Limina at Padua, there were
two brothers, who being on a summer’s day hi the country,
went abroad after supper, talking together of many things.—
As they were standing a gazing upon the stars that twinkled
in the sky, being very clear, one of them began in merriment
to say to the other, “ Would I had as many oxen as I see stars
in yonder firmament,” and the other replies “Would I had a
pasture as wide as the firmament,” and therewith turning to
his brother said unto liim, “ Where would’st thou feed thy
oxen ?” “ Marry, in thy pasture,” quoth his brother. “ But
how if I would not let thee,” said the other ? “I would,”
quoth the first, “whether thou would’st or not.” “What,
(replied the second) in spite of my teeth?” “Yea (answers
the other) whatsoever thou could’st do to the contrary.”—
Hereupon their sport turns to outrageous words, and at last to
fury, that in the end they drew their swords, and fell to it so
hotly, that in the turn of a hand they ran one another through
the body, so that they both fell weltering in their blood. The
people of the house hearing the bustle ran towards them, but
came too late, and carrying them into the house, they both
soon after gave up the ghost.
Curious Fact. —Few of the Latin authors were Romans
by birth. The only men of which the Capitol can boast, are
those of Lucretius, Caesar, and Varro.— Dunlop.
Punch’s Metropolitan Improvements. —We perceive
with much pleasure by an announcement on a black board,
thai the square keeper of Soho-square has “had instructions
to promote, as far as he can, the respectability of the inclo-
sure.” This very desirable work has already been commenced
by raking over the beds and rolling the gravel, while a vigorous
attempt has been made to force vegetation by pumping on a
dilapidated box-tree. The pump opposite St. James’s Church
still excites much attention. The double spout is in comme-
moration of the spouting that is continually going on in the
vestry room opposite.
Lovers conceal their faults from each other, and deceive
themselves—friends confess their faults to one another, and
pardon tjiem mutually.
Mind your own Faults. —A gentleman riding along the
road, passed by a field of furze, in which a man was stubbing;
and for every stroke he gave with his hoe, he cried out in a
reproachful tone, “Oh ! Adam !” The gentleman stopped
his horse, and calling the labourer to him, inquired the reason
of his saying « Oh ! Adam !”—Why, please your honor,” said
the man, “ only for Adam I would have no occasion to labour
at all; had he and Eve been less curious, none of us need earn
our bread by the sweat of our brow.”—“ Very good,” said the
gentleman : “ call at my house to-morrow.” The man waited
on him the next day, and the gentleman took him into a splen-
did apartment, adjoining a most beautiful garden, and asked
him, would he wish to live there ? The son of Adam replied
in the affirmative. “Very well,” said the gentleman, “you
shall want for nothing ; breakfast, dinner, and supper of the
choicest viands, shall be laid before you every day, and you
may amuse yourself in the garden whenever you please. But
mind, you are to enjoy all this on one condition, that you look
not under the pewter plate that lies on the table.” The man
was overjoyed at his good fortune, and thought that there was
little fear of his forfeiting it by looking under the pewter plate.
In a week or two, however, he grew curious to know what could
be under the plate, which he was prohibited from
Perhaps a jewel of inestimable value, and perhaps nothing at
all. One day, when no person was present, he thought he
would take a peep—there could be no harm in it—no one
would know it: and accordingly he raised the forbidden plate—
when lo ! a little mouse jumped from under it; he quickly laid
it down again, but his doom was sealed. “Begone to" your
hoeing,” said the gentleman, next day, “ and cry ‘Oh Adam!’
no more, since, like him, you have lost a paradise by dis-
obedience.”
Description of a Steam-Engine.— That part of the
machine which you see moving up and down is the hypothesis,
the tube which it moves in is termed the dilemma. That wheel
is called a category ; it communicates motion to those other
wheels, which are named predicaments, and the whole con-
stitutes a true syllogism. In the mode above indicated, logic
may be made to answer in default of mechanics.— Punch.
A friend once defined for me Echo, as “a Vocal per-
spective.” I have never heard it done better, and so have
noted it down.— A Dreamer.
Keep him at least three paces distant who hates music and
the laugh of a child,— -Lavater.
“ I’ll turn you round/’ as the wind said to the weather-cock,


The Moralist.
EMULATION.
If thy soul thirsteth for honour, if thy ear hath any pleasure
in the voice of praise, raise thyself from the dust whereof thou
art made, and exalt thy aim to something that is praise-
worthy.
The oak that now spreadeth its branches towards the
heavens, was once but an acorn in the bowels of the earth.
Endeavour to be first in thy calling, whatever it be ; neither
let any one go before thee in well doing; nevertheless do not
envy the merits of another; but improve thine own talents.
Scorn also to depress thy competitor by any dishonest or
unworthy method: strive to raise thyself above him only by
excelling him ; so shall thy contest for superiority be crowned
with honour, if not with success.
By a virtuous emulation, the spirit of a man is exalted
within him ; he panteth after fame, and rejoiceth as a racer to
run his course.
He riseth like the palm-tree in spite of oppression ; and as
an eagle in the firmament of heaven, he soareth aloft, and
fixeth his eye upon the glories of the sun.
The examples of eminent men are in his visions by night,
and his delight is to follow them all the day long.
He formeth great designs, he rejoiceth in the execution
thereof, and his name goeth forth to the ends of the world.
But the heart of the envious man is gall and bitterness;
his tongue spitteth venom; the success of his neighbour
breaketh his rest.
He sitteth in his cell repining, and the good that happeneth
to another, is to him an evil.
Hatred and malice feed upon his heart, and there is no rest
in him.
He endeavours to depreciate those that excel him, and
putteth an evil interpretation on all their doings.
He lieth on the watch, and meditates mischief: but the
detestation of man pursueth him, and he is crushed as a spider
in his own web.
MORAL MAXIMS.
ALPHABETICALLY ARRANGED.
No. 4.
A false-grounded hope, is but a working man's dream.
A fat kitchen makes a lean will.
A fault is made worse, by endeavouring to conceal it.
A fault, once denied, is twice committed.
A fever is as troublesome upon a couch of state, as upon a
flock-bed.
A few books, well chosen, are of more use than a great
library.
Affairs, like salt-fish, ought to be a good while a-soaking.
Affairs, must suffer when recreation is preferred to business.
Affectation in dress implies a flaw in the understanding.
Affectation is, at best, a deformity.
Affectation of wisdom often prevents our becoming wise.
Affected simplicity is refined imposture.
Guilt may attain temporal splendour, but can never confer
real happiness.
Cowardice of mind is the never-failing concomitant of a
guilty conscience.
He who violates his word is the first person that is injured
by so doing.
A man of business must put up with many affronts, if he
love 3 his own quiet,— Penn.
Fancy is free from all engagements ; it digs without spade,
sails without ship, flies without wings, builds without charges,
fights without bloodshed ; in a moment striding from the centre
to the circumference of the world ; and by a kind of omnipo-
tency, creating and annihilating things in an instant; and
things divorced in nature are married in fancy as in a lawless
place.— Memoriter.
The best antidote to self-esteem is self-knowledge. Hence
the most intellectual men have been the most modest; because
they know how small was their acquirements when compared
with the greater amount of knowledge which their powers
were unable to attain.
The glory of a woman lies not in the admiration of her
lover, but the respect of her husband.
Praise and wine strengthen provided they do not in-
toxicate.
Select Poctry.
TIME.
Time’s an hand’s-breadth ; ’tis a tale ;
’Tis a vessel under sail:
’Tis an eagle in its way,
Darting down upon its prey ;
’Tis an arrow in its flight,
Mocking the pursuing sight;
’Tis a short-liv’d fading flower ;
’Tis a rainbow on a shower ;
’Tis a momentary ray,
Smiling in a winter’s day;
’Tis a torrent’s rapid stream ;
’Tis a shadow ; ’tis a dream ;
’Tis the closing watch of night,
Dying at the rising light;
’Tis a bubble; ’tis a sigh ;
Be prepar’d, O man! to die.
FRANCIS QUARLES
THE MAID’S LAMENT.
I loved him not; and yet, now he is gone,
I feel I am alone.
I chech’d him while he spoke; yet could he speak,
Alas! I would not check.
For reasons not to love him, once I sought,
And wearied all my thought,
To vex myself and him : I now would give
My love could he but live
Who lately lived for me, and, when he found
’Twas vain, in holy ground
He hid his face amid the shades of death !
I waste for him my breath
Who wasted his for me ! but mine returns,
And this lorn bosom burns
With stifling heat, heaving it up in sleep,
And waking me to weep
Tears that had melted his soft heart; for years
Wept he as bitter tears !
‘ Merciful God !’ such was bis latest prayer,
‘ These may she never share !’
Quieter is his breath, his breast more cold
Than daisies in the mould,
Where children spell, athwart the church-yard gate,
His name and life’s brief date.
Pray for him, gentle souls, whoe’er you be,
And oh ! pray too for me !
Memoriter.
TO A GROUP OF CHILDREN.
How glad ! how beautiful ! you steal
Our hearts into your play,
And with a sweet delusion chase
Life’s weariness away ;
We gaze until we fondly deem
You thus will ever be
A little race, distinct from us—-
From man’s disquiet free.
We are not light as playful winds,
Nor graceful as the flowers ;
And gladness flashes from your eyes,
Whilst sorrow is in ours.
Boys, can you ever grow to men,
War’s horrid game to learn ?
Girls, must you lonely women be,
Their distant doom to mourn ?
A blessed life, a blessed lot,
Should your’s be evermore ;
The light which gathers round you now,
You send far on before.
Coloured from this your future life
In fancy is as fair;
Alas ! alas 1 ye know it not —
Glad pilgrims unto care!
Ibid.


WEEKLY MISCELLANY.
THE PROSPECTS AND RESOURCES OF THE
COLONY.
[ln answer to a remark we affixed to our Correspondent’s
communication on the “ Resources of the Colony ” in our last
number, we have received the following, which we have plea-
sure in inserting as explanatory.]
The choice of the above heading to this and my
former papers, arose from an overpowering conviction
of the abundant sources of estimable materials for
manufacture and commerce which I saw around me,
and others which had been reported to me by
country letters. In my first paper it was signified to
the readers, that the ensuing lines w T ere to consist of
the elements of Chemistry, it might rather have been
said of Chemical Philosophy ; for before the produc-
tions and uses of the different earths and plants can
be understood, the innate and governing principles of
air, w r ater, and heat upon them must be examined ; it
being only through their varied agency that the pro-
perties and value of any portion of matter can be
estimated. The absence of this previous knowledge
has prevented the discovery of the virtues of many a
plant, many a tree, and the abundant uses of the rich
soil of this Colony. Those few persons who have
discerned them, perhaps from not having apparatus
to work with, have seen and been silent. As has be-
fore been stated, one person has at length sprung up ;
and our desire should be to pave his way, and that of
others to pursuits, which, in our mother country,have
always afforded profits to a heavy per centage, and
many an individual has realised a fortune.
We have already spoken of some 'of the variations
which take place in the atmosphere: it still remains
to mention those more violent commotions which are
called boisterous winds and stormy weather. These
phenomena occur most frequently in those countries
where the heat is greatest, because there the air be-
comes more rarified and ascends rapidly ; while the
denser bodies of the atmosphere rushing forward to
fill up the space from which the lighter have ascended,
necessarily cause a powerful commotion in the sur-
rounding parts. Air travels with extreme velocity
when thus set in motion, and assumes the form and
name of a current of wind. The turbulent and boiste-
rous weather to which we are sometimes subjected, is
often occasioned by the meeting and interfering of
these currents of air. Whirlwinds, hurricanes,
lightning, thunder and rain, all arise from one part
of the atmosphere being more pressed on than another,
and this occurring at different places at the same
time. Near the Equator, and under a vertical sun,
the air is constantly expanding, and there are always
found regular currents of cold air rushing from the
north and south poles of the Equator, which change
with the varying declination of the sun. These cur-
rents of air are called the trade winds, and are so
regular, that navigators can calculate upon their
occurrence and direct their passage accordingly.
This provision of nature is peculiarly beneficial to
the inhabitants of those warm regions, by cooling the
air, which would otherwise be almost intolerable,
even to those who are natives of the soil. There are
also currents of air called monsoons, from a Persian
word signifying season. During six month's in. the !
year thsy pass in one direction, and again six months
in the opposite, as if they went and returned. At the
time when these currents change their course, the
atmosphere is greatly disturbed. The power and
effect of the different currents of air vary according
to the quarter of the globe from whence they pro-
ceed. In England the north-east wind is always
cold and penetrating, because it comes from a colder
region into a warmer latitude, and consequently
expands, while a westerly wind coming from
a warmer latitude is condensed on its arrival and
imparts to the air a portion of its humidity. At the
Cape of Good Hope, the south-east is the dry wind ;
as it comes from the cold South Pole iuto an ex-
tremely warm climate, it will sometimes expand
so suddenly as to wither the vegetation. Thus it
is seen, that although the air is of so extremely thin
and subtle a nature that it will enter rapidly into the
minutest spaces, it is also under the Being who
formed it an instrument of power almost beyond the
conception of man. It is generally supposed that our
surrounding air is limited to 45 miles, and that
between all material spheres there is an empty space,
and that if it were not so, they would fall together,
whereas we see through our transparent atmosphere
that each planet and sphere is upheld by its own in-
ward attraction of gravitation. Notwithstanding all
the changes that have been enumerated, and all the
varied exhalations from the earth and its inhabitants,
the proportions of the two gases, oxygen and nitrogen,
are never found to vary in the atmosphere ; they may
be mixed with few or many of other vapoury particles,
but always retain their own primary and fixed pro-
portions. Oxygen is attracted from the air by most
of the metals ; it is inhaled, by all animated nature ;
it is received into all burning materials, but “ He
who hath made the earth by his power, who hath
established the world by his w 7 isdom, and hath
stretched out the heavens by his discretion,” has
ordained that all vegetable substances shall emit
during the day a vast portion of oxygen, while at the
same time they take up in their system of organi-
zation the carbonic acid which surrounds them. No
other way is known for the renewing supply of oxygen,
nor can w T e appreciate the carbonic acid in the air
but as for the sustenance of plants. Air is not only
the first grand and essential supporter of life in man,
beasts, birds, fishes, insects, and plants, but it is also
the medium of much enjoyment to all, being the
conveyancer of sounds and the imparter of odours.
The ingenuity of man has contrived a machine to
withdraw the air from a limited space, which is found
useful in many chemical operations; it is called an
air pump, and in its construction resembles very much
that of the common pump used for raising water ; its
parts are, however, more nicely and accurately made,
the object being to exhaust the air completely and
rapidly from any vessel. Any portion of space from
which the air has been exhausted, is called a vacuum.
The variations which take place in the atmospheie
have ever been a source of contemplation and wonder
to all men, even the wisest of the earth. Job says,
“ Out of the south cometh the whirlwind, and cold
out of the north.” “By the breath of God frost is
given.” Solomon also says, “ The wind goeth towards
the south, and turneth about unto the north, it whirleth
about continually, and returneth again according to
its circuits.”


PHRENOLOGY.
lFor the Colonial Literary Journal.]
No. I.
Perhaps no subject in the present age has caused
so much controversy as the one at present under con-
sideration. So simple a science, so boldly professing
to explain the hitherto hidden mysteries of the mind,
assigning a fixed locality to each faculty, and over-
throwing the whole preceding systems of philosophy,
was regarded with astonishment, nay, treated with
contempt, as the impudent invention of some inge-
nious quack. But as years rolled on, and the talented
founder of this system of philosophy continued to
extend his researches, in the support of his doctrine,
and to add daily to the number of his disciples, the
wise men of the earth began to take serious notice of
what they at first had looked upon with contempt, and
to search the writings of philosophers, to see if any
mention was made of a doctrine similar to the present.
The fundamental principle of Dr. Gall’s system of
philosophy was, that the mind has its seat in the
brain. On this question of the locality of the mind,
there existed the most conflicting opinions among
both ancient and modern philosophers. Pythagoras,
Plato, and others, considered the intellectual faculties
as having their seat in the brain ; Aristotle, in the
heart; Van Helmont places them in the stomach;
Des Cartes in the pineal gland, and Drelincourt in
the cerebellum ; while the moral sentiments were, by
almost universal consent, considered to have their
seat in the thoraic and abdominal viscera. In the
present age, independently of phrenology, the mind is
generally considered to have its place in the brain. Dr.
Gall and his followers have demonstrated this beyond
the shadow of a doubt. The doctrine of the plurality of
the organs of the mind, and the assigning to each a
distinct locality in the brain, essential principles of the
science of Phrenology, were met by its opponents with
the utmost ridicule, and abusive opposition. Dr. Gall
was accused of having by dissecting the brain attempted
to discover the locality of‘its organs, and to have
mapped out its whole surface ; assigning to each divi-
sion the name of a certain faculty of the mind, just as
his fancy suggested. These assertions, utterly contrary
to truth, were so ridiculous that they were easily re-
futed. Dr. Gall had begun to found his system, before
he saw the necessity of calling in anatomy to his aid ;
and it is well known that it was only by the most
laborious and patient investigation of facts for a
number of years, that he was enabled to assign certain
localities to the different organs of the mind.
And from these observations may be deduced some
of the most convincing arguments in support of the
science—the object to which our present paper is
devoted. That so complete a system of the dif-
ferent faculties of the mind, could be drawn up by
any one person from his own judgrrent, how talented
soever the individual might be, is out of the question.
The crude speculations of philosophers since the time
of those fathers of philosophy, Plato and Aristotle,
concerning the mind of man, are not for an instant to
be compared to the Phrenological system in point of
simplicity, conciseness, and arrangement. The ad-
vantage which it possesses over other systems is, that
it is not founded upon airy hypotheses, but appeals to
facts— that it is founded upon nature—that not one
step nas taken in its formation, but which was first
established by innumerable and undeniable evidences •,
and now, its defenders appeal for the support of its
principles to nature—to every day experience, means
of proof or of confutation which are open to every body ;
and surely if these principles are erroneous, it is easy
to overthrow them, and to demolish the whole fabric
of the science.
If we examine the arrangements of the organs on
the skull, as made by phrenologists, we cannot but
admire the appropriateness of their separate positions,
and feel that such an arrangement, resulting from a
close observation of nature, carries with it the most
convincing argument that the science of phrenology
is founded on the basis of truth. First, let us direct
our attention to the grouping of the propensities, and
we shall find the organ of Amativeness, or the sexual
passion, immediately followed by Philoprogenitiveness,
or the love of offspring, which is bounded on each
side by Adhesiveness, the faculty that inspires friend-
ship or attachment in general, and followed imme-
diately above by Coneentrativeness or inhabitiveness,
from which,whatever are itsother functions, certainly re-
sults the love of home; next to this organ is Self-esteem,
the faculty which constitutes regard for ourselves:
in fact, the whole circle of our domestic affections,
guarded as it were by the organs of Combativeness
and Destructiveness. The next group, in which
the same admirable propriety of arrangement is
also observable, is that which comprises the faculties
given us for our defence from danger, to exercise
dominion over the creatures, and to provide our-
selves with food, viz., the organs of Combativeness,
Destructiveness, and Secretiveness, the names of which
sufficiently indicate their functions, guided by the
organ of Cautiousness which restrains their undue in-
fluence, and preserves the individual from rushing
headlong into danger and death. We find in the
front those faculties having immediate reference to
external objects, such assize, weight, form, colouring,
&c., ending on each side of the head in the organ of
Constructiveness, their proper application ; and meet-
ing at the base of the forehead in the organ'of Indivi-
duality, in which they, as it were, unite. On the
lateral parts of the forehead, is another group of the
organs of time and tune, bordered by Ideality and
Constructivenes —all essentially necessary in a com-
poser of music.
ÆNEAS.
ORIGINAL CORRESPONDENCE.
PROTECTION.
To the Editor of the Colonial Literary Journal.
No. 11.
If the argument made use of in my last note, has any
weight in reference to matters in England ; it must
have quite as much in regard to those of this or any
other Colony. Monopoly, in any shape, I hold to he
prejudicial, and the following remarks are meant to
have more immediate reference to the question lately
broached—the protection of wheat growers here. The
attempt to establish a monopoly in their favour will
likely be renewed, in which case a few thoughts on
the effects of protection may not be unsuitable.
According to the census of 1841, the population of
this colony exclusive of females, children, and convicts
in government employment, was 56,409. These we


are to presume, are free men above the age of 21.
Of these, there were landed proprietors, merchants,
bankers, and professional persons 4,477, Of gar-
deners, stockmen, and persons employed in agriculture
16,670. These are the only classes who can possibly
be interested in the production of grain, in all 21,147.
Among these, however, are included stockmen, a class
rather numerous, and who we all know have them-
selves nothing whatever to do with the tilling of the
ground ; their sole business being the care of their
flocks and herds, the legitimate resources of the
Colony. So, if we were to estimate the number of
all those to whom a protecting duty on grain would
be an advantage, at 20,000, we should certainly go
beyond the mark. To the remainder of the popula-
tion, there can be no doubt, the lower the price they
pay for their food as well as clothing, &c., the better
for them—and the question then stands thus ; are
36,000 persons to pay an enhanced price for bread
that 20,000 may follow wheat growing ? Is the
comfort and happiness in some degree more or less
of the majority to be sacrificed for the sake of the
minority ?
Let us view this on another side. The value of all
kinds of grain including pease, potatoes, &c., imported
last year was £112,387. This amount having been
paid to strangers, persons in whom we have no in-
terest, and who have no interest in us further than to
obtain our money, leads to a very natural conclusion,
that it is only so much capital wherewith we might
have given employment to our own population, en-
tirely thrown away—and a complete loss to the
colony. This argument bears upon its front so plau-
sible an appearance that the prejudices in its favor are
not easily dispelled. Putting aside, for a moment,
the question of our sending money out of the colony,
let us enquire whether or not we are enriching our-
selves in producing an article at a higher cost at
home, than what it can be had for abroad. The
whole amount of grain consumed among us during
the past year was almost 2,400,000 bushels. Of
these 500,000 have been imported for which the above
price was paid, If we take the average price at 4s.
per bushel, the total paid by the colony for this ne-
nessary of life, will be £480,000. It cannot however
he said that the prices obtained were remunerating,
and it will readily be allowed that a protecting duty
of at least 25 per cent, must be had to make them so.
This would make the actual cost £600,000, and it is
an object of some importance to know' what would
become of the difference, in this case supposed to be
£120,000. Supposing that this amount went entirely
to swell the rent roll of the landlords, it w T ould, to
say the least of it, be unjust, that a large majority
of the community should be taxed to this amount for
the sake of theffe r , but if it can be shewn, that only
a very small part ever reaches them, and that the rest
is a dead loss, being so much capital actually des-
troyed, the belief, that protection in this case would
be a national benefit, will not I think find a resting
place in any disinterested mind. Rent we all know'
is simply the value of the difference between the pro-
duce of the most inferior soils cultivated, and that of
the best. The proportion which it bears to the w r hole
produce of the land, it has been shewn more than
once before the house of commons (and it is the same
in this colony,) does not exceed one-fourth—conse-
quently whatever may be the enhancement of the
price of produce, the landlord can and does receive
no more than his fourth part, which in the supposed
case is £30,000. The remainder £90,000 is swal-
lowed up by the farmer’s additional expences and is
productive of no good whatever. To illustrate this a
little more. —Suppose a farm of 400 acres, the rent of
which is 10s. per acre, £2OO, the total produce of
that land must thus be £BOO to enable the farmer to
pay his rent. A rise in the price of his grain takes
place, from what cause matters not, to the value of
25 per cent. The produce thus is £l,OOO. But as
the rent never averages more than a fourth, it does not
then exceed £250- The increased cost of the main-
tenance of the farmer’s family and of his cattle, (in
his using dearer corn, &c.) the higher wages he is
obliged to pay his servants —besides the advanced
price which “ caeteris paribus” follows from corn
advancing he will be obliged to pay for his clothing,
implements, &c., will sw'allow up the whole of the
balance £l5O which is thus productive of no good,
but spent in additional expenses consequent upon the
enhancement of the value of his produce.
Certainly the money paid on account of these wmuld
be still in existence, but it would have been paid to
men, who on being asked to shew what they have
done for it, could only point to a work without any
productive returns. The country wrnuld not be one
whit the richer for their labour ; but in fact, would
he more than the above mentioned sum the poorer ;
for besides the positive loss of the labour w hich would
be thus directed to an end of so destructive a tendency,
there would also be the loss of the profit which their
labour ought to have produced, if applied in accord-
ance with the proper developement of the natural
resources of the colony.
And allow me to ask —the principle of protection
to any species of labour once admitted—w here is it
to end ? Protect the grain grower, say to the extent
of increasing his price 25 per cent., and the mechanic
has a right not only by the precedent, but also in
virtue of the increased price w'hich he is obliged to
pay for his provision—to an equal protection. From
one profession it w r ould go to another, round and
round, till the w'hole of our prices would be at
least one-fourth higher than they would have been
had there been no protection at all. Now mark the
consequences.—As it is only by the exportation of
what our colony is better fitted to produce than any
other, thatw r e can expect to be supplied with what w e
want from abroad, the increased cost of the produc-
tion of these articles lessens our ability to procure
the same quantity of supplies which we might have
had, had our prices been at their natural level. For
instance, suppose one pound of w r ool cost us at present
Is. ; to produce it in the case of the advanced prices,
it w r ould cost us at least 15d. Now there is no more
to be had for the wool which cost us 15d. than for
that which cost us only Is. ; for the market in which
we dispose of our exports will not rise because our
home market has done so. On the contrary there is
always the probability of a fall from other competi-
tion—consequently there is a positive loss of 3d. on
every pound of wool—and in like manner there would
be a loss, though proportionately less, yet a direct
loss, if protection is extended only to one or two
professions.
I recollect hav’ng read somewhere lately that il it
is the business legislators to increase the prices,


that those increased prices may produce additional
employment, and through this, plenty, comfort and
content, ’ and I finish this by quoting from a highly
intelligent writer, the following paragraph.
“ Instead of being publicly advantageous, high
'prices are in every case distinctly and completely the
reverse. The smaller the sacrifice, for which any
commodity can be obtained, so much the better. —
When the labour required to produce, or the money
required to purchase a sufficient supply of corn, is
diminished, it is as clear as the sun at noonday that
more labour or money must remain to produce or
purchase the other necessaries conveniences and amuse-
ments of human life, and that the sum of national
■wealth and comforts must be proportionably aug-
mented. Those who suppose that arise of prices can
ever be a means of improving the condition of a
country, might, with equal reason suppose that it
would be improved by throwing its best soils out of
cultivation, and destroying its most powerful machines.
The opinions of such persons are not only opposed to
the plainest and most obvious principles of economical
science, but they are opposed to the obvious suggestions
of common sense, and the universal experience of
mankind.”
Apologising for the space I have taken by these
scattered ideas, I remain, your most obedient servant,
HORACE.
Australian Biography.
JAMES ROBERT WILSHIRE, ESQUIRE,
MAYOR OF SYDNEY.
The Right Worshipful the Mayor of our Australian
Metropolis, is a native of the Colony, and was born
in the City in the year 1809. He is the second son
of the late James Wilshire, Esq., a native of Aylesbury,
in Buckingham, who emigrated to this Colony in the
year 1800, with an appointment from the Home
Government in the Commissariat Department, from
which he retired in 1812, with a certificate under the
hand of Governor Macquarie of having discharged the
duty of Deputy-Commissary with his Excellency’s
approbation. The mother of the Mayor was the
daughter of Mrs. Mary Pitt, the widow of a respectable
farmer in Dorsetshire, who emigrated with her family
to this Colony in 1801. This enterprising lady was
a cousin of the venerable father of Lord Nelson, by
whose advice, and with especial recommendations to
the Governor, she emigrated to this remote settlement
with the laudable ambition of providing permanently
and advantageously for a rising and promising family.
After retiring from the Commissariat, the Mayor’s
father embarked his capital in the business of leather,
soap, and candle manufacture ; from which he con-
tinued till his death, in 1840, to accumulate con-
siderable profit and property, in addition to grants of
land and stock which he had previously acquired.
Since his father’s death, the Mayor has continued the
business in conjunction with his brother, Mr. A. F.
Wilshire, in the original premises, Brickfield-hilL
In 1836, his Worship married Elizabeth, third
daughter of Mr. Joseph Thompson, of Pitt-street,
Sydney, whose father was Mayor of Daventry, in
Northampton, in 1783.
In September, 1842, he was appointed by his
Excellency Sir George Gipps to the office of Assessor
for Phillip Ward, for the purpose of initiating the pro-
ceedings of the first Municipal Election under the
Sydney Corporation Act. At that election, which
took place on the Ist November, he had the honor of
being returned as a Councillor for the ward in which
he presided ; and on the 9th of the same month, he
was elected Alderman of Macquarie Ward, with a
tenure of office for six years. He w r as subsequently
appointed, by commission, a Magistrate of the City
of Sydney and County of Cumberland, and at the
same time an Assessor of the Supreme Court of the
Colony.
In September, 1843, on the resignation of the first
Mayor, John Hosking, Esq., Mr. Alderman Wilshire
was unanimously elected to fill the vacant office till
the expiration of the current mayoralty ; and on the
9th November following, he was re-elected, by a large
majority, as Mayor of the City for the ensuing year.
Immediately after his first election as Mayor, he w r as
appointed a Magistrate of the territory, in addition to
his ex officio magistracy for the City.
As a member of the City Council, Mr. Wilshire
has been constant in his attendance, and zealous in
the performance of his public duties. As Chief Magis-
trate of the City, he presides in Petty Session, and on
the Bench daily in the Police Court. He has been
chairman of several important committees, whose re-
ports, especially those of the Lighting and General
Police Committees, were adopted with marked appro-
bation by the Council. In his youth, Mr. Wilshire
was a pupil of the late Dr. Halloran, and though he
has no pretensions to oratorical display, he has a com-
petent share of intelligence and sound sense, with an
exceedingly unassuming and amiable disposition. His
political sentiments are liberal and independent; and
his religious profession is that of the Established
Church of England. In all the relations of private
life, he is esteemed by those who know him ; and in his
public capacity, both as Chief Magistrate of the City
and President of the Council, the impartiality and
firmness of his administration entitle him to the respect
of the community.


THE ABORIGINAL LANGUAGE.
Extracts from “ An Australian Grammar comprehending the
Principles and Natural rules of the Language as spoken by
the Aborigines in the vicinity of the Hunter River , Lake
Macquarie, fyc. fyc.,New South Wales. —By L. E. Threlkkld.”
We have but lately met with this interesting and curious phi-
lological work. Interesting—as every thing must be tending
to inform us of the language, customs, and manners of the
Aboriginal inhabitants of this vast Southern Continent; and
curious—from the peculiar formation of the language. Labo-
rious, also, to a very great extent, must have been the compiling
of this work.
The arrangement of this Grammar, says the Author, is
formed on the natural principles of the language, and not con-
strained to accord with any known grammar of the dead or
living languages. The peculiarity of its structure being such
as totally to prevent the adoption of any one as a model.
There is much of the Hebrew form in the conjugation. There
is also a very great similarity of idiom in the dual with the
Greek language, and a resemblance to the deponent of the
Latin.
The Alphabet consists of sixteen letters—A, B, E, I, K, L,
M, N, Ng, O, P, R, T, U, W, Y.
In comparing the Australian with the Tahitian, Sandwich,
and New Zealand languages, a great similarity appears, lead-
ing us to suppose that they are but dialects of the original
language : but which is the parent tongue, the Author says it
is impossible to state,
The Dual number, observes the Author, page 23, is essential
to this language, and so necessary, that conversation could not
be continued without it. The Dual is common to all the
Islands of the South Seas. There is, yet, a peculiarity in the
Dual of the Australian tongue which does not exist in the
Islands, namely a conjoined case in the dual pronouns in which
the nominative and accusative are blended as shewn in the
pronouns, whilst the verb sustains no change, excepting where
reflective, or reciprocal, or continuative. Whilst, in the Islands,
there are dual verbs. The Aborigines of this Colony are far
more definite in the use of tenses than the Islanders, who have
nothing peculiar in the use of tenses.
Speaking of the peculiarity of the reciprocal dual, the
Author makes the following remark, which, whether intended
as a piece of just satire or not, requires no comment. “ Also in
duelling, a practice they have in common with other barba-
rous nations, the challenge is expressed in the reciprocal
form !”
“ The most particular attention is necessary in the tenses of
the Participles, as well as that of the Verb; each tense being
confined to its own particular period, as shewn in the coniua-a-
tion of the Verbs.”* J 8
Our space will not permit us to more than slightly notice—
the use of Particles in this language, by the right use of
which alone may we expect to render ourselves intelligible to
the Aborigines—the substitute for the Article—t he seven
Declensions for Nouns, Adjectives, and Participles, the first
being reserved entirely for the Proper nouns, or names of
Persons—the Gender, generally undistinguished—the seven
Cases of nouns, viz. : two Nominatives, and the Genitive,
JJative, Accusative, Vocative, and Ablative; the first nomina-
tive being simply declarative where the subject is inactive ; the
second, being used when the subject is an agent causative of
action—a Noun becomes an Adjective, Verb, or Adverb, ac-
cording to the particle used, or the juxtaposition of the
word—no further Numbers beyond the cardinals one, two, three
and four, but the general term Kau-wul-kau-wul, much or
many. Verbs sustain no change, but are doubled to denote an
increase in the state or action. They are conjugated by par-
ticles, each of which contains the modification of the verb, as
assertion, negation, privation, tendency, cause, desire, purpose,
gzc., thus forming moods and tenses—the idiom of the lan-
guage renders Conjunctions useless—the number of different
names for one substantive: Water, for instance, has at least
five names; and Fire has more; the Moon has four names
ccording to her phases: and the Kangaroo has distinct
haunt 3 t 0 S 6X ’ acCOrdin S t 0 size ’ or the different places of
We must notice certain barbarisms introduced by sailors,
stockmen, and others, which have crept into use, and which
both the Colonists and Aborigines use with the idea that they
are each speaking the language of the other. The following
are a few selected :
Barbarism. English. Aboriginal proper word.
Boojery Good Mur-ro-rong.
Bail No Ke-a-wai.
Jin A Wife Po-ri-kun-hai.
Murry Many Mu-rai-ai also Kau-wul-kau-wul.
Wikky Bread Ivun-to.
In the Author’s very complete Vocabulary, are mentioned
the following, among other curious personages:—
Ko-yo-ro-wen, The name of another imaginary Being,
whose trill in the hush frequently alarms the blacks in the
night. When he overtakes a native, he commands him to
exchange cudgels, giving his own which is extremely large,
and desiring the black to take a first blow at his head, which"
he holds down for that purpose, after which he smites and
kills the person with one blow, skewers him with the cudgel,
carries him off, roasts and then eats him!
Kur-ri-wilban, The name of his wife ; she has a long horn
on each shoulder growing upward, with which she pierces the
Aborigines, and then shakes herself until they are impaled on
her shoulders ; when she carries them to the deep valley, roasts
and eats her victims. She does not kill the women, they being
always taken by the husband for bimself. Ya-ho, has by
some means been given to the blacks as a name for this
being.
Kur-rur-kur-ran, The name of a place, in which there is,
almost, a forest of petrifactions of wood, of various sizes ex-
tremely well defined. Situated in a bay at the N. W extremity
of Lake Macquarie. The tradition of the Aborigines is, that
formerly it was one large rock which fell from the heavens and
killed a number of blacks, which were assembled where it
descended, they being collected together in that spot by com-
mand of an immense Guana, which came down from heaven
for that purpose. In consequence of his anger at their having
killed lice by roasting them in the fire, those who had killed
the vermin by cracking, were previously speared to death by
him with a long reed from Heaven ! At that remote period
the moon was a man named Pon-to-bung, hence the moon is
called be to the present day; and the sun being formerly a
woman, retains the feminine pronoun she. When the Guana
saw all the men were killed by the fall of the stone, he ascended
up into heaven, where he is supposed now to remain.
Mur-ra-mai, The name of a round ball, about the size of a
cricket ball, which the Aborigines carry in a small net sus-
pended from their girdles of opossum yarn. The women are
not allowed to see the internal part of the ball ; it is used as a
talisman against sickness, and it is sent from tribe to tribe for
hundreds of miles on the sea coast, and in the interior; one is
now here from Moreton bay, the interior of which, a black
shewed me privately in my study, betraying considerable
anxiety lest any female should see the contents. After unroll-
ing many yards of woollen cord made from the fur of the
opossum, the contents proved to be a quartz-like substance of
the size of a pigeon’s egg, he allowed me to break it and
retain a part, it is transparent like white-sugar-candy ; they
swallow the small crystaline particles which crumble off, as a
preventative of sickness. If scratches glass, and does not
effervesce with acids. From another specimen, the stone
appears to be agate of a milky hue, semipellucid, and strikes
fire. The vein from which it appears broken off, is one inch
and a quarter thick. A third specimen contained a portion
of cornelian partially crystalized, a fragment of chalcedony,
and a fragment of a chrystal of white quartz.
Nung-ngun, A song. There are poets (!) among them who
compose songs which are sung and danced to by their own
tribe in the first place, after which other tribes learn the song-
arid dance, which itinerates from tribe to tribe throughout the
country, until from change of dialect, the very words are not
understood correctly by distant blacks.
Yar-ro, Literally an egg. But mystically to the initiated
ones, it means fire or water. By this term in asking for either
element, the fraternity discover themselves to each other.
Their name for women is Kun-nai-ka-rd, when the tooth is
knocked out of the men, and themselves are called, Yi-ra-bai,
previous to which they are stiled, Ko-ro-mun. The ceremony
of initiation takes place every three or four years as young lads
arrive at the age of puberty, when mystic rings are made in
* As a sample of the form of conjugation, we shall insert
T e 1 a * adigni of the Active Verb in our next number.


the woods, and numerous ridiculous ceremonies are gone
through before the operation of displacing the tooth in the
upper jaw, which is effected by three steady blows with a stout
punch from the hand of the Ka-ra-kul, after which the youth
may seize a woman, and engage in their fights.
>\ e shall conclude our extracts with the following sentences
illustrative of the idiom of this peculiar tongue, with the literal
translation underlined :
If you had been here this morning, I should have seen you.
Ka pa bi ba unta ngorokan ta na pa ngaiya banung
Hadst been thou if there this morning it is seen had then I —thee
Come at sun set.
Tanan bi wolla yanti ta punnul ba polong kalinnun
Approach thou move at the time as sun when sinking will be
Yes, I was talking to myself.
Kauwa wiyaleun bang ngatoa bo
Yes talked reflectively litis I self
While writing these remarks, we had our attention drawn to
Mr. Threlkeld’s Annual Report (for 1839) of the Mission to
the Aborigines, in which—speaking of some enquiries lately
made in the language of the American Indians—Mr. Threlkeld
says, that he is enabled “ at once to discover a striking simila-
rity in the peculiarity of construction and idiom of the language
of the Aborigines of New South Wales, with those of the
Indians of North America.”
It cannot be too strongly recommended, says the author of
the Report, to those who are endeavouring to obtain a know-
ledge of the language of Savage nations, the necessity of dis-
missing from the mind the trammels of European schools, and
simply to trace out the natural rules of languages which have
been not sophisticated by Art. The almost sovereign contempt
with which the Aboriginal language of New South Wales has ,
been treated in this Colony, and the indifference shown toward
the attempt to gain information on the subject, are not highly
indicative of the love of Science in this part of the Globe, and
for which it is difficult to account, but on the ground of that
universal engagement in so many various employments conse-
quent to a new Colony, where every individual must be
dependent on his own exertions for the necessaries and com-
forts of life.
Original Poetry.
STANZAS TO-.
Oh ! say not that my looks are dark,
And never gleam with gladness now ;
Oh ! tell me not that thou canst mark
The lines of thought upon my brow.
That grief hath dimmed those eyes that once
Were lighted at the fires of thine,
Like stars, which through the blue expanse
With soft reflected glory shine.
Oh! mark not thou my hollow cheek,
My frequent fits of moody gloom ;
And say not that the words I speak
Seem voices issuing from the tomb.
Upbraid me not —upbraid me not; —
Thou little knowest the pangs I feel;
These symptoms of my lonely lot
Not half my inward griefs reveal.
I sit, while happier hearts rejoice,
Unmoved by all that once was dear;
And woman’s soft bewitching voice
Hath lost its witchery to my ear.
I mingle in the sportive dance,
Unmindful of the part I play ;
Nor heed the laughing looks that glance
From circles of the bright and gay.
My books, whose silent wisdom spoke
So sweetly, once, in gloom or glee,
Delight no more ; the spell is broke ;
Even they have lost their charms for me.
The muses’ haunts where, late, I strayed,
Enraptured with their blest retreat,
And wooed each heaven-descended maid,
That flung her treasures at my feet; —
They, too, have ceased to ease my pain,
And heal my wounded bosom’s sore ;
The poet’s loftiest—sweetest strain—
Can nor inspire, nor please me more.
Not even the beauteous face of earth
Hath beauty to my jaundiced eye;
And to the social sound of mirth
My gloomy heart makes no reply.
The joys, the hopes of early days,
No more shall brighten o’er my brow ;
My lamp of life hath ceased to blaze, —
It burns but faint and feebly now.
All ! me, though scarcely reached my prime,
My heart is desolate and lone ;
As if the chilling hand of time
Had o’er my head his mantle thrown ;
As if the cares of gathering years
Had spread their furrows o’er my brow,
And left me, in this vale of tears,
A withered leaf—a sapless bough.
Ere first I felt, beloved one,
Thy charms o’er all my senses steal,
My callous heart seemed formed of stone —
’Twas thou who taught that heart to feel.
How oft that fond aspiring heart
Has pictured what my life had been,
With thee all gentle as thou art
To share my lot and gild the scene !
’Pis past —my fevered dream is o’er ;
Yet I would dream that dream again ;
Even though my waking thoughts with more
Than madness fire my burning brain.
For though that dream of bliss was brief,
’Twill light the gloom of coming years :
There is a luxury in grief—
A soothing solace even in tears.
ALPHA.
Sydney, July, 1841.
A SONNET FROM THE GERMAN.
“ Ich hab’ein kleines Hiittchen nur.”
[first translation.]
I have a Cottage, in a nook.
’Tis on a verdant lea, —
A brook runs by,—a little brook.
But clearer none can be.
Beside the Cottage stands a tree,
That hides it like a grove,
And shade and shelter yields to me,
To me and those I love.
And in that tree a nightingale
Sings still so sweet a song,
That all, who pass along the dale,
Listen and linger long.
My little one, so long my joy,
My fair-hair’d maiden, come,
And shield thee from the rising wind,
Within our Cottage-home!
[second translation.]
I have a Bark Hut in the bush, —
A patch of maize to that, —
And after rain a creek will rush
Inundating the flat.
A wattle grows beside the hut,
And spotted gums conceal,
That frosts so cold and winds so hot
I scarcely ever feel.
And I have on the wattle there
A speaking Cocky-bird,—
And all who pass the Punt declare
The like they never heard.
My Jenny dear, that many a year
So well hast done for me,
Come in, here comes a brickfielder,
Let’s have a pot of tea!
[We insert this at the request of an anonymous Correspon-
dent, as we think the Colonial manner in which he has trans-
lated the Ode will amuse our country subscribers. — Ed. C.L.J.]


LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL.
WEEKLY ABSTRACT.
WEDNESDAY.
The Colonial Secretary laid on the table of the
House returns showing the number of White men
killed by Aborigines, being 40 ; and the number of
Aborigines killed by Whites, to the number of 113 —
as far as could be ascertained, in the district of Port
Phillip since its first settlement.
Several petitions having been presented, and motions
put and carried by the House, Dr. Bland moved for the
consideration of the petition from certain master and
journeymen printers, praying for the non-continuance
of the government printing office. After some expla-
natory statements from the Colonial Secretary in de-
fence of this establishment, Dr. Bland requested and
obtained leave to withdraw his motion, together with
the petition.
On the motion of Mr. Windeyer the Jury Laws
amendment bill was read a second time.
The Council then resolved itself into committee
for the further consideration of the bill for regulating
the law of apprentices in the Colony of New South
Wales. A debate ensued, which ended by the subject
being postponed until Friday-week.
THURSDAY.
After notices of motion from Mr. Lowe and Dr.
Nicholson, the latter made enquiry of the Colonial
Secretary as to the steps taken by government to de-
clare Geelong a free port. The Colonial Secretary
replied that in consequence of the expence that such a
measure would entail, no steps had been taken in the
matter.
The House then went into committee on the Cus-
toms’ bill. After further consideration, and partial
adoption the chairman reported progress, and obtained
leave to sit again on the morrow.
FRIDAY.
Mr. Windeyer, as chairman, brought up the report
of the Privilege Committee. Strangers having with-
drawn, the report was read. It was then moved that
the report be taken into consideration on Thursday
next. On a division of the Council, the report was
ordered to be printed and taken into consideration on
Thursday next; to which day the Council adjourned.
frivilege committee.
The following is an abstract of the report presented
by Mr. Windeyer, the chairman of the select com-
mittee on the Privileges of the Council, with particular
reference to Mr. Lowe’s case already presented to our
readers : —After receiving Mr. Lowe’s statement of
the facts of the case between himself and Mr. Aider-
man Macdermott—and considering the same, the
committee in their report state that, “ there appeared
to be no doubt that—as the branch of the Supreme
Legislature of the Colony, representing its inhabi-
bitants—there was inherent in the constitution of the
Council the privilege of freedom of debate, as a ne-
cessary incident to its Legislative character ; and that
circumstances such as has been represented to the
committee by Mr. Lowe, constituted a breach of that
privilege which would authorise the House summarily
to adjudicate upon it.”
But that in consequence of a late decision of the
Privy Council relative to the Assembly of Newfound-
land—the report goes on to say— ■“ Your committee
think the judgment of the privy council recorded, has
sufficient bearing upon the point before them, to
make it proper for the House to refrain from exer-
cising the privilege of summary jurisdiction in the
present case. Your committee are the more disposed
to recommend the adoption of another course, as they
think the outrage of which the parties at present im-
plicated have been guilty, is of too grave a nature to
be adequately punished in a summary manner. Your
committee, therefore, as the best present mode of deal-
ing with Messrs. Macdermott, Moore, and Macfarlane,
beg to recommend that the Attorney-General be re-
quested to move the Supreme Court for leave to file a
criminal information against them ; and to prevent
all doubt in future cases —your committee likewise
recommend that a bill be passed to confer upon the
Council such powers as may be considered necessary
to its efficiency.”
COMMERCIAL REVIEW.
At this season of the year trade is usually dull, and commer-
cial transactions of the past week have been but limited, Spirits
excepted, of which sales have been effected to some extent.
The arrival of the barque Lloyds has added upwards of 330
hogsheads of Beer to our overstocked market. The importa-
tion of Drapery Goods by same vessel, selected by an experi-
enced trader to this port, will be readily disposed of at remu-
nerative prices.
Sales have been brisk in the Flour and Grain market.
The dealers contemplating an advance in the price of Maize,
have become extensive purchasers from I4d. to Isd. per
bushel—the supply on hand is at present very scanty.
In other articles there is nothing worthy of note, and prices
of most goods remain the same.
B. S. LLOYD
Commission Agent, Bridge-street.
June 17th, 1544.
COLONIZATION.
Extract frgm the speech of Sir William Moles-
WORTH, DELIVERED AT A FETE GIVEN BY THE PLY-
MOUTH Company of New Zealand.
“We are by nature a colonising people. God ha&
assigned to us the uninhabited portions of the globe,
and it is our duty to lake possession of them..” [Sir
William then adverted to the colonization of New
Zealand, and the peculiar plans of Mr. Wakefield.
He was himself, he said, deeply interested in New
Zealand, having a brother amongst the first settlers.
This young person had gone thither with his cordial
approbation and concurrence.] “ For in my humble
judgment, a young man with active body and vigorous
understanding, who has his fortune to make, cannot seek
it in a better manner than in the colonies, especially
in those of the southern hemisphere, w r here the climate
is similar to our own. In this country every occu-
pation is overstocked ; in every employment competi-
tion is excessive ; the profits of capital are scanty, and
there is no room for competitors. Look at the num-
ber of barristers without briefs— of lawyers without
fees—of doctors without patients. Behold the swarms
of clergymen that crowd into the church without any
special vocation for that sacred office, and awaiting in
vain expectation for some scanty living. The army
and navy are equally overstocked. In the same
manner I might go on enumerating every description
of trade and industry, showing in all the excess in the
number of competitors and a state of general uneasi-
ness. It is only, therefore, after a long life of patient
and painful toil, an! in too many cases not even then,


that a prudent man, who does not possess the gifts of
fortune, can indulge in the social affections—become
a husband, and the honoured father of a family. It is
unnecessary for me to dwell upon the unhappiness that
ensues, and the injury done to morality. It is but
too well known to all persons who have reflected upon
the social condition of mankind. Nor will I speak of
the lamentable effects upon the social condition of
women—the blighted affectious, the misery, and un-
happiness, which are to be attributed to the causes I
have just mentioned. The deepest sorrow and com-
passion must fill the mind of every man who has care-
fully considered these subjects, and traced the moral
as well as the physical consequences of over-competi-
tion in this densely peopled country. How different
is the scene in the colonies of the southeren seas!
There industry and capital meet with a reward three
times greater than in this country. There, with
moderate prudence and exertion, every man and every
woman can obtain a comfortable subsistence ; and a
numerous offspring, instead of being a burden, is the
greatest of benefits. What, then hinders multitudes
from hastening to these lands of promise ? Surely
abundance there is better than penury here. Why
do not the younger branches of our aristocracy, instead
of wasting their time at home in sloth and idleness, or
in the ignoble attempt, and henceforth, I trust, a vain
one, to quarter themselves upon the resources of the
nation —why do not they, I repeat, lead forth nu-
merous bands of emigrants to the colonies'? Can
they have a more honourable or useful occupation?
By putting themselves at the head of systematic colo-
nisation, they would confer a lasting benefit on their
country and themselves, and gain a renown in history
similar to that of the Raleighs, the Gilberts, the
Drakes, and other worthies, distinguished in the an-
nals of the planting of America. You, intrepid men,
who are about to leave these shores, emigrants to New
Zealand, bright prospects are before you. Go, then,
accompanied by every auspicious omen. Be the
pioneers of civilisation. Imitate your forefathers :
subdue the forest—carry your name, and your lan-
guage, and your arts, and your institutions, into the
wilds of the southern hemisphere. Let the sea and
the land be alike witness of your toils. Become the
founders of a mighty empire in a new world of your
own creation. Thus accomplish the destiny of your
race. It is true, you are few in number, but no more
numerous were those who landed in this kingdom with
Hengist and Horsa, and still fewer were the pilgrim
fathers of the thirteen millions of America. Go, then,
be bold yet prudent. Place firm faith and reliance
in yourselves. And remember in the hour of peril,
that there are no dangers nor difficulties that the
Anglo-Saxon man has not already overcome. Go,
then, and prosper. And that happiness and every
success may attend your steps, is the humble prayer
which all here present offer up in your behalf.”
Shipping Enidltgme.
ARRIVALS.
July 12.—The barque Haidee, 33 5 tons, Captain Marshall,
from Liverpool, 20th February, and the Cape of Good Hope
10th May, with a general cargo.
July 13.—The steamer Shamrock, 200 tons, Gilmore from
Port Philip the 4th, Launceston the 9th, and Twofold Bay the
11 rh instant, with sundries.
July 15.—The cutter Alpha, 18 tors James from Po t
Phillip, via Port Albert, having left the 3rd instant, with bark.
July 16.—The schooner Edward 87 tons, Captain Tallan,
from Boyd Town, Twofold Bay, the 12th instant, with sundries.
July 16.—The steamer Sovereign, 119 tons, Captain Cape,
from Moreton Bay, the 12th instant, with 33 casks tallow.
DEPARTURES.
July 11.—The barque Achilles, Captain Veale, for London,
with colonial produce.
July 11.—The schooner Vanguard, Captain Pilfold, for
Akaroa, New Zealand, with sundries.
July 14—The brig Ocean Queen> Captain Freeman, for
London, with colonial produce.
July 15.—The brig Eleanor, Captain Macfarlane, for Port
Nicholson, via Newcastle, with sheep.
3Strtf)S.
On the 11 th instant,at Miller’s Point, the lady of Frederick
Ebsworth, Esq., of a daughter.
On the 12th instant, at her residence, George-street, Mrs.
Thomas Woolley, of a daughter.
On the 12th instant, at Fort-street, Mrs. Mashfield Mason,
of a daughter.
On the 12th instant, at her residence, Macquarie Inn,
Windsor, Mrs. Thompson, of a son.-
iFHarrtage.
On the 10th instant, at Selwood, the residence of Charles
Macquarie, Esq., by the Rev. William Ross, William Heugh,
of West Maitland, to Elizabeth Campbell, the only surviving
daughter of Colin Stevenson, Esq., late of Ardeglamie, island
ofGeha, Argyleshire, North Britain.
JBcatf)S.
On the Btli instant, at his residence, Government Gardens.
Mr. Naismith Robertson, Superintendent of the Botanic Gar-
dens, Sydney, aged 60 years.
At his residence, in O’Connell-street, James Birnie, Esq.,
aged 82 years.
On the 12tli instant at her residence, George-street, Parra-
matta, Dinah Catherine, the beloved wife of Mr. Woolls, aged
29 years.
On the 9th instant, at Strathallan, near Braidw'ood, Sarah,
second daughter of the Rev. Christopher Eipper, aged two
years and three months.
On the 16th instant, at bis residence, Elizabeih-street,
Richard Allen, Esq., Registrar of the Court of Requests, aged
44 years.
On the 14th of March last, at Paisely, Robert Steuart, Esq.,
of Steuart Hall, Stirlingshire.
ikg-ents for this Journal.
Sydney, Mr. W. Jones, Circulating Library, Brickfield-hill.
Parramatta Mr. Hugh Taylor.
Windsor Mr. Walker.
Bathurst Mr. Tress.
West Maitland Mr. Galloway. 1
©dental Htterarji Journal,
AND
Weekly HSiscellany of Useful Information.
THE TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION to this Journal
are, Three Shillings per Quarter, in Town ; Country,
Three Shillings and Sixpence ; payable, in every case,
in advance.
Terms for Advertisements : —For one inch, and under,
Three Shillings; and One Shilling for every additional inch,
each insertion. Advertisements will be received until Two
o’clock on Wednesday afternoon; but cannot be withdrawn
later than Nine o’clock on Wednesday morning. Adver-
tisements must specify on the face of them the number of
times they are to be inserted, or they will be continued till
countermanded, and charged accordingly.
All communications must be addressed to “ The Editor
of the Colonial Literary Journal, General Printing Office,
133, King-street East,” (post paid.)
Parties signifying their intention of becoming Subscribers
to the Colonial Literary Journal, are informed that the first
numbers may be still obtained on application to their respec-
tive Agents, and at the Office.
