

COLONIAL
LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
“ NON TUA TE MOVEANT, SED PUBLICA VOTA.’
Vol. I. No. 23.]
SYDNEY, THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 1844.
[Price 4d.
ADVANCEMENT IN LIFE.
[continued.]
It will doubtless have been apparent to our readers
that our last week’s essay on this important topic was
incomplete. We now proceed to give the concluding
portion of the extract—without note or comment.
“ Self-denial. —Perhaps among all the qualifi-
cations which, in a combined form, lead to fortune,
none is more absolutely indispensable than this. A
man may have talent, may have application, both in
abundance ; but if he cannot resist vulgar tempta-
tions, all is in vain. The Scotch, as a nation, are
characterised immensely l*y self-denial, and it is the
main ground of their prosperity both at home and
abroad. It is one of the noblest of the virtues, if not,
indeed, the sole virtue which creates all the rest. If
we are obliged at every moment to abandon some
sacred principle in order to gratify a paltry appetite ;
if the extensive future is perpetually to be sacrificed
for the sake of the momentary present; if we are to
lead a life of Esau-like bargains from the first to the
last—then we are totally unfit for any purpose above
the meanest. Self-indulgence makes brutes out of
gods : self-denial is the tangent line by which human
nature-trenches upon the divine. Now, self-indul-
gence is not inherent except in very few natures; it is
almost invariably the result of ‘ evil communications’
in youth, and generally becomes a mere use or habit.
1 ne most of error arises from the contagion of ex-
ample. A youth at first debauches himself because
he sees others do it ; he feels, all the time, as if he
were sacrificing merely to the glory of bravado; and
there is far more of martyrdom in it than is generally
supposed. But though a person at first smoke in
order to show how much disgust he can endure, he
soon comes to have a real liking for tobacco. And
thus, for the paltriest indulgences, which only are so
from vicious habit, and perhaps, after all, involve as
much dissatisfaction as pleasure, we daily see the most
glorious and ennobling objects cast, as it were, into
hell fire.
We are by no means hostile to all amusement.
The mass of men require a certain quantity of amuse-
ment almost as regularly as their daily food. But
amusement may be noxious or innocent, moderate or
immoderate. The amusements which can be enjoyed
in the domestic circle, or without company at all, are
the safest; there is great danger in all which require
an association of individuals to carry them into effect.
Upon the whole, a multitude of bosom friends is the
most pernicious evil that ever besets a man in the
world. Each becomes a slave to the depraved appe-
tites of the rest, and is at last ulcerated all over with
their various evil practices. At the very best, he is
retarded to the general pace, and never finds it possible
to get a single vantage hour, in order to steal a march
upon his kind.
Honourable Intentions are also indispensably
necessary. The reverse is simply want of sense and
understanding ; for it is obvious to every one who has
seen the least of human life, that infinitely more is
lost in reputation and means and opportunities of well-
doing, by an attempt to gain an undue advantage,
than what can in general cases be gained. If we had
to live only for a short time certain, trickery might be
the most expedient course, so far as this world is
concerned ; but if a man contemplates a life above a
single twelvemonth, he will endeavour, by the guarded
correctness of his actions, to acquire the good character
which tends so much to eventual prosperity. The
dishonest man, in one sense, may be termed the most
monstrous of all self-flatterers : he thinks he can cheat,
the whole of the remaining part of mankind—which
certainly is no trifling compliment. He soon finds,
however, that he was seen through all the time by
those whom he thought mere children, and his blind-
ness and silly arrogance receive their deserved
punishment. Even where the depravity may be of
a very slight kind, it is alike in vain. In ordinary
transactions, the one party deals with the other exactly
according to his character : if the one be in general
disposed to overreach, the other is just proportionably
on his guard ; so that there is no result but trouble,
and a bad name. One thing should be strongly
impressed upon such persons : they are far more
generally understood and watched than they are aware
of; for the world, so long as it can simply take care
of itself without much difficulty, is not disposed to
adopt the dangerous task of a monitor. The police-
officer knows of many rogues whom he passes every
day on the street; he never lays hold of any, unless
for some particular offence.
Such are the principal qualities necessary for ad-
vancement in life, though any one of them, without
much or any of the other, will, if not counteracted by
negative properties, be sure to command a certain
degree of success. He who is about to start in the
race would do well to ponder upon the difficulties he
has to encounter, and make up a manful resolution to
meet them with a full exertion of all his powers. To
revert to the general question —what is it that enables
one man to get in advance of his fellows ? The


answer is obvious —it can only be his doing more than
the generality of them, or his enduring more privation
than they are generally inclined to do [that is, self-
denial,] in order that he may acquire increased power
of doing. The fault of most unsuccessful persons is
their want of an adequate idea of what is to be done ,
and what is to be endured. They enter business as
into a game or a sport, and they are surprised, after
a time, to find that there is a principle in the affair
they never before took into account —namely, the
tremendous competition of other men. Without being
able to do and suffer as much as the best men of
business, the first place is not to be gained : without
being able to do and suffer as much as the second
order of men of business, the second place is not to be
gained: and so on. New candidates should therefore
endeavour to make an estimate of the duties necessary
for attaining a certain point, and not permit themselves
to be thrown out in the race for want of a proper per-
formance of those duties. They should either be
pretty certain of possessing the requisite powers of
exertion and endurance, or aim at a lower point, to
which their powers may seem certainly adequate.”
THE BRAZIER.
The Brazier makes kettles, pans, candlesticks, and other
kitchen utensils, of brass, which is not a simple metal, but
compounded of copper and zinc, in certain proportions : if the
proportion of copper be greater, the compound is pinch-beck.
Copper alloyed with tin, makes bronze, bell-metal, &c.
Brass is capable of being wrought with very great facility,
and is applied to a variety of purposes in the arts. It is of a
beautiful yellow colour, more approaching to that of gold, and
not so apt to tarnish or rust as copper. It is more ductile
than either that metal or iron; and hence, peculiarly fitted
to be made into wire. As brass is, in general, used for
mathematical and astronomical instruments, where the greatest
precision is required, its expansion has been very accurately
determined.
This compound metal was known at a very early period. It
was first discovered from the circumstance of copper ore and
zinc earth, or calamine, sometimes called cadmia by the
ancients, being found in one mine, and yielding, when melted,
not pure copper, but a metal of a yellow colour; and, from
its resemblance to gold, the mines which contained this ore,
were held in the highest estimation. This earth, which must,
have been calamine, is mentioned both by Aristotle, Strabo,
and Pliny. Its use has been handed down through every
century, and is still retained in the manufacture of brass. This
discovery was no sooner effected, than the ancient method of
procuring this metal was abandoned. Pure copper was first
extracted from the ore, and then converted into brass by the
addition of calamine, but as the art of making brass with lapis
calaminaris was not well understood by the ancients, but cost
them much trouble, it was esteemed next to silver, and was
reckoned little inferior to that metal, as we learn from
Procopius.
In modern times, considerable improvements have been
made in the manufacture of this metal, and some secresy is
observed by those who have the reputation of the finest
article.
The use of brass seems to have been very prevalent amongst
the ancients. Most of the arms and instruments found in
Herculaneum, Pompeia, &c., whether culinary, mechanical, or
agricultural, were made of brass. It may be observed, how-
ever, that most of the genuine relics of this kind approach
nearer to bronze than to our modern brass, and appear to be
composed of various mixtures of brass, with tin and other
metals.
In the shops we often find that the same people deal in
brass, copper, and tin-ware ; and, that the furnishing iron-
monger sells almost every article made in brass and copper.
In such cases, the brazier neither makes nor is supposed to
make, all the different articles in his shop ; it is sufficient for
his own purpose, as well as for the advantage of his customers,
that he should be so much of a working brazier, as to be a
competent judge of the workmanship of all the goods in which
he deals. If he is a master in a large way, he employs a
great number of hands in the different branches of his trade,
and his profits are of course in proportion to the magnitude of
his capital.
Some of the articles manufactured by the working brazier,
are beat out with the hammer, and united in their several
parts by solder ; others are cast: those which are cast, belong
to the business of the founder, except the polishing and
finishing, which require the art of the brazier.
The working brazier has need of strength, and if he would
excel in his business, he should possess ingenuity to finish the
work with taste. . ,
The founder is employed in casting a thousand different
articles in brass; for which purpose he has models of the
work designed: to these he fits the mould in which he casts
his metal. He rarely designs anything himself, and his chief
skill lies in melting the brass, and running it into the mould
evenly. There are various kinds of founders ; some who cast
for braziers only, others who cast the different smaller articles
for coachmakers, sadlers, &c. and some cast the brass cannon,
to carry on the dreadful art of war. The founder requires a
strong constitution, to undergo the heat of immense furnaces.
Copper is dug out of the earth, or found united in many
springs, containing sulphuric acid. The richest cO PP er niines
in the known world, are in the Isle of Anglesea. The moun-
tain from which the ore is dug, is called Parys. This ore is a
sulphate of copper, and in order to reduce it into the metallic
state, it is heaped up in large masses against a wall, a fire is
kindled under the heap, and it burns for many days, slowly,
but strongly: holes are made in the wall, which lead to a kind
of room, where the sulphur which escapes from the ore is
collected, and with which the common roll brimstone of the
shops is made. There have been dug from the Parys mine,
thirty thousand tons of ore in a year. _
There are two springs at Sterngrundt, in Upper Hungary,
so richly impregnated with copper and sulphuric acid, that
iron thrown into these, is dissolved by the acid, and the copper
falls to the bottom in its metallic form. Near these springs
pits are dug, and filled with water: old iron is then thrown
into them, which, in about a fortnight, or three weeks, is taken
out, and the copper scraped off. By this process, a hundred
pounds of iron will produce from eighty to ninety pounds ot
copper. The same method is adopted at some springs in the
county of Wicklow, in Ireland, and here twenty pounds of iron
will yield sixteen of copper, which fetches a high price.
The coppersmith makes furnaces, boilers, and all manner ot
large vessels for brewers, distillers, and others. His work is
very laborious, and the business is the most noisy of all
mechanical employments. The wages of the journeyman are
equal to the powers of body required in the operation.
Copper is used in a variety of the arts : but vessels made ot
it for culinary purposes are highly prejudicial: for acid, and
fatty substances, when left in them anytime, combine with the
copper, ‘and form verdigris, which is an absolute poison,, and
when taken in the smallest quantities, it is very prejudicial to
the constitution.
To prevent these pernicious effects, most copper vessels are
well tinned on their insides. Th : s operation is thus effected:
the surface is well cleaned by rubbing it with sal-ammoniac,
or an acid ; the tin, or a composition of tin and lead, is then
melted in the vessel and rubbed well about it with a handful
of old rags.
REWARD.
[For the Colonial Literary Journal.]
In order to induce men to the performance of actions
either good and virtuous, or bad and vicious, it is
necessary that we present to their minds something
equivalent to the act in the shape of remuneration or
reward. There exists a kind of selfish spirit that
mingles itself with everything we perform —with every
thought of our minds; and no matter how pure, or
virtuous, or philanthropic, our actions may be, this
motive will be found, like an under-current, exer-
cising a powerful influence on all that is above it. Do
the rose and the violet lose any of their beauty or
fragrance from the connexion they hold .with the
earth in which they are planted ?On the reverse-
if we deprive them of this soil so necessary to their
growth, they will wither away and die. And so also,


if we destroy this universal spirit of selfishness, or, in
other words, this love of those pleasurable sensations
which are the sure reward of good actions , the chances
are that we should cease to perform good actions at
all; for we hold that this selfishness is the originator
and propeller of all we do ; it flatters our self-love ; it
heightens our ideas of our own nature ; and, by these
means, instigates to the performance of acts of gene-
rosity and benevolence, which, without such incentive,
would probably never be undertaken.
Nor does the act lose any of its usefulness in con-
sequence of having been instigated by a selfish spirit,
or by the hope of reward, which is the same thing.
When we perform an act of benevolence, however,
our bosoms too often swell out with conscious pride ;
we are very apt to be puffed up, and to view ourselves
with too much self-complacency. To gain these some-
what pleasurable emotions, and opinions of our own
generosity, we are led to perform those acts which are
calculated to raise them ; and hence we proceed upon
selfish motives, having an eye to the reward we shall
receive in our consciousness of having performed that
which would be considered praiseworthy by those
around us.
The Creator of the world well knew that men would
require some reward as an inducement to the per-
formance of good actions, and wisely imbued their
minds with those feelings which might be looked upon
in the light of a remuneration ; or which would, at all
events, act as an incentive, and spur them on in the
paths of virtue and benevolence. This must be so :
for what other reward can be expected from the
thousand and one acts of charity that are daily per-
formed ? Unless there be a reward in the performance
of the act itself, there can be none at all; ard to sup-
pose that men would perform actions by which they
suffer a pecuniary loss, without any real or imaginary
benefit accruing to themselves from them, is to sup-
pose that which the experience of every hour flatly
contradicts.
The world may be said to be swayed for good or
evil, as the rewards offered by each, as inducements
prevail. Certain it is, that this principle forms a part
of every transaction in which we engage. The re-
ward of the ambitious man is in the possession of
power; of the miser, in gloating with a fiendish rap-
ture over his sparkling but useless gold ; the poet,
and the orator, and the statesman, in the acquirement
of fame ; the lover, in the possession of his mistress ;
the soldier and the sailor, in danger and subsequent
glory. Every man is stimulated and urged on in
some one line of conduct I yv anticipations of reward;
and, according to the natiM of that reward, upon the
acquirement of which he places so much value, will
the nature and character of his efforts depend. When
we are stimulated to a wrong line of conduct by the
hope of some real or imaginary benefit being attached
to our pursuing it, we shall always find that it is in
consequence of the depravity of our nature leading us
to attach an importance to that benefit, which, in
reality, proves valueless, if not absolutely detrimental.
It seems evident that the moment the idea of per-
forming a benevolent action occupies the mind, it is
capable of imparting pleasure ; and, therefore, it is
more than probable, instigates to the performance of
the action itself; for if the mere idea of doing good is
capable of yielding us pleasure, how much more may
we not reasonably anticipate from the act? “And
surely,” says Dr. Fleetwood, “ nothing can surpass
the pleasure felt by a generous mind, at having re-
lieved a brother, when pressed beneath a load of
misfortunes ; the pleasure is divine ; it is godlike !”
It would be a source of immense delight to the phi-
lanthropist to contemplate some vast scheme —im-
practicable it may be—whereby the present deplorable
condition of vast masses of the human family might
be ameliorated ; whereby the slave might be eman-
cipated ; the savage civilized; war abolished; the
starving fed; the naked clothed ; the houseless wan-
derer sheltered. All this would yield, even by mere
contemplation, a great amount of delight; and how
much would that pleasure be augmented were we in
a position to embody our thoughts in actions, and
thus dispense the good! Now, as it amounts almost
to an impossibility that we ever can be possessed of
so vast a power of doing good, why should we thus
fondly cling to the idea of performing these impos-
sibilities—plain, palpable, insurmountable impossi-
bilities ? The reason is obvious. We find a pleasure
in the contemplation of benevolent actions, which
stimulates us on all occasions to bring our minds to
bear upon such subjects, in order that such pleasure
might be enjoyed as the reward of our thought. And
it will be found that this enjoyment —pure, unalloyed,
heavenly as it is, is one of the principal, if not the
only incentive we have, to benevolence ; and there-
fore it is evident that, even in our acts of charity, we
are swayed entirely by the anticipation of reward.
* * *
History.
ANCIENT HISTORY: SECTION XXII.
OF THE GREEK HISTORIANS.
1. The genius of the Greeks was in no department
of literary composition more distinguished than in
history ; and the most eminent of their historians
were nearly contemporary with each other. Hero-
dotus died 413 b. c. ; Thucydides, 391 b. c. ; and
Xenophon was about twenty years younger than Thu-
cydides. Herodotus, a native of Halicarnassus, one
of the Greek cities of Asia, has written the joint
history of the Greeks and Persians, from the time of
Cyrus the Great (599 b. c.) to the battles of Platsea
and Mycale, a period of 120 years. He treats inci-
dentally likewise of the history of several other
nations—of the Egyptians, Assyrians, Medes, and
Lydians. His veracity is to be depended on in all
matters that fell under his own observation ; but he
admits too easily the reports of others, and is in
general too fond of the marvellous. His style is
pure, and he has a copious elocution.
2. Thucydides was a native of Athens, and of an
illustrious family. He was an able general, and has
written, with great ability, the history of the first
twenty-one years of the Peloponnesian war ; intro-
ducing it with a short narrative of the preceding
periods of the history of Greece. He is justly es-
teemed for his fidelity and candour. His style is a
contrast to the full and flowing period of Herodotus,
possessing a sententious brevity, which is at once
lively and energetic. The history of the remaining
six years of the war of Peloponnesus was written by
Theopompus and Xenophon.
3. Xenophon commanded the Greek army in the
service of Cyrus the younger, in his culpable enter


prise against his brother Artaxerxes. (See Sect.
XIII. § 0.) After the failure of this enterprise,
Xenophon directed that astonishing retreat from
Babylon to the Euxine, of which he has given an
interesting and faithful narrative. He wrote likewise
the Cyropedia, or the histoiy of the elder Cyrus,
which is believed to be rather an imaginary delinea-
tion of an accomplished prince than a real narration.
He continued the history of Thucydides, and has left
two excellent political tracts on the constitutions of
Lacedamion and Athens. His style is simple and
energetic, familiar, unadorned, and free from all
affectation.
4. Greece, in her decline, produced some historians
of great eminence. Polybius, a native of Megalo-
polis, in Arcadia, wrote forty books of the Homan
and Greek history during his ow n age ; that is, from
the beginning of the second Punic war to the reduc-
tion of Macedonia into a Roman province ; but of
this great w r ork only the first five books are entire,
with an epitome of the following twelve. He merits
less the praise of eloquence and purity than of authen-
tic information, and most judicious reflection.
5. Diodorus Siculus flourished in the time of
Augustus, and composed, in forty books, a general
history of the world, under the title of Bibliotheca
Historica. No more remains than fifteen books; of
which the first five treat of the fabulous periods, and
the history of the Egyptians, Assyrians, Persians,
Greeks, &c., prior to the Trojan war. The next five
are wanting. The remainder brings dow n the history
from the expedition of Xerxes into Greece till after
the death of Alexander the Great. He is taxed with
chronological inaccuracy in the earlier parts of his
work; but the authenticity and correctness of the
latter periods are unimpeached. His style, though
not to be compared to that of Xenophon or Thucy-
dides, is pure, perspicuous, and unaffected.
6. Dionysius of Halicarnassus, eminent both as an
historian and rhetorician, flourished in the age of
Augustus. His Roman Antiquities contain much
valuable information, though his work is too much
tinctured with the spirit of systematizing.
7. Plutarch, a native of Chaeronea in Bceotia, flou-
rished in the reign of Nero. His lives of illustrious
men is one of the most valuable of the literary works
of the ancients ; introducing us to an acquaintance
private character and manners of those
eminent persons whose public achievements are re-
corded by professed historians. His morality is
excellent; his style is clear and energetic, and when
the subject demands it, rises frequently to great
eloquence.
8. Arrian, a native of Nicomedia, wrote, in the
reign of Adrian, seven books of the wars of Alexander,
with great judgment and fidelity ; his narrative being
composed on the authority of Ai istobulus and Ptolemy,
two of Alexander’s principal officers. No historical
record, therefore, has a better claim to the public faith.
His style is unadorned, but chaste, perspicuous, and
manly. It is to his writings that we owe all our
knowledge of the sublime morality of Epictetus, of
whom he was the favourite disciple.
THE CYCLE OF NATIONS;
OR, THE RACE WHICH NATIONS RUN.
1> Peace. 2. Plenty. 3. Pride. 4. Contention. 5. War.
Peace ft?'. 1‘ f Famine * 8 - Misei 7- 9. Humiliation. Then
I eace, &c. as before.~.V«WocA- s T'xtuary .
THE BROKEN MINIATURE.
Two young officers, belonging to the same regiment,
aspired to the hand of a young lady. We will con-
ceal their real names under those of Albert and
Horace. Two youths more noble never saw the
untarnished colours of their country wave over their
heads, or took more undaunted hearts into the field,
or purer forms or more polished address into the
drawung-room.
Yet was there a marked difference in their cha-
racters, and each wore his virtues so becomingly, and
one of them at least concealed his vices so becomingly
also, that the maiden who saw 7 them both, was puzzled
where to give the preference; and stood, as it w 7 ere,
between two flowers of very opposite colours and per-
fumes, and yet each of equal beauty.
Horace, who was the superior officer, w 7 as more
commanding in figure, but not so beautiful in features,
as Albert. Horace was the more vivacious, but Albert
spoke with more eloquence upon all subjects. If
Horace made the more agreeable companion, Albert
made the better friend. Horace did not claim the
praise of being sentimental, nor Albert the fame of
being jovial. Horace laughed the more with less wit,
and Albert was the more witty with less laughter.
Horace w r as the more nobly born, yet Albert had the
better fortune—the mind that could acquire, and the
circumspection that could preserve one.
Which of the two did Matilda prefer ? Yes, she
had a secret, an undefined preference •, yet did her
inclinations w r alk so sisterly hand in hand with her
duties, that her spotless mind could not divide them
from each other. She talked the more of Horace,
yet thought the more of Albert. As yet, neither of
the aspirants had declared themselves. Sir Oliver,
Matilda’s father, soon put the matter at rest. He had
his private and family reasons for washing Horace to
be the favoured lover; —but, as he by no means
wished to lose to himself and to his daughter the
valued friendship of a man of probity and of honour,
he took a delicate method of letting Albert under-
stand that every thing that he possessed, his grounds,
and his house, and all belonging to them, w ? ere at his
service ; and he excepted only his daughter.
When the two soldiers called, and they were in the
habit of making their visits together, Sir Oliver had
alw r ays some improvement to show Albert, some dog
for him to admire, or some horse to try ; and even in
wet weather, there was never wanting a manuscript
for him to decipher, so that he was sure to take him
out of the room or out of the house, and leave Horace
alone with his daughter, uttering some disparaging
remark, in a jocular tone, to the effect that Horace
was only fit to dance attendance upon the ladies.
Albert understood all this, and submitted. He did
not strive to violate the rights of hospitality, to seduce
the affections of the daughter, and outrage the feelings
of the father. He was not one of those who would
enter the temple of Beauty, and, under the pretence
of worshipping at the shrine, destroy it. A common-
place lover might have done so, but Albert had no
common-place mind. But did he not suffer ? Oh!
that he suffered, and suffered acutely, his altered looks,
his heroic silence, and at times his forced gaiety, but
too plainly testified.
He kept his flame in the inmost recesses of his
heart, like a lamp in a sepulchre, and which lighted
up the ruins of his happiness alone.


To his daughter Sir Oliver spoke more explicitly.
Her affections had not been engaged ; and the slight
preference that she began to feel stealing on her
heart for Albert, had its nature changed at once.
When she found that he could not approach her as a
lover, she found to spring up for him in her bosom a
regard as sisterly, and as ardent, as if the same cradle
had rocked them both. She felt that her father knew
that Albert’s w r as a character that must be loved, if
not as a husband, as a brother.
The only point upon which Matilda differed from
her father, was, as to the degree of encouragement
that ought to be given to Horace.
“ Let us, my dear father,” she would entieatingly
say, “be free, at least for one year. Let us, for
that period, stand committed by no engagement’, we
are both young, myself extremely so. A peasant
maiden would lay a longer probation upon her swain.
Do you but ask Albert if I am not in the right
The appeal she made to Albert, which ought to
have assured her father of the purity of her sentiments,
frightened him into suspicion of a lurking affection
having crept into her bosom.
Affairs were at this crisis, when Napoleon returned
from Elba, and burst, like the demon of war, from a
thunder cloud, upon the plains of France; and all
the warlike and the valorous arose and walled her
in Avith their veteran breasts. r lhe returned here
lifted up his red right hand, and the united force of
France rushed with him to battle.
The regimentof our rivals Avas ordered to Belgium,
and, after many entieaties from her father, Matilda at
length consented to sit for her miniature to an emi-
nent artist; but, upon the express stipulation, when it
should be given to Horace, that they were still to hold
themselves free. This miniature Avas finished, the
resemblance excellent, and the exultation and rapture
of Horace complete. He looked upon the possession
of it, notAvithstanding Matilda’s stipulation, as an
earnest of his happiness. He had the picture set
most ostentatiously, in the finest jewels, and constantly
Avore it on his person ; and his enemies say, that he
shewed it Avith more freedom than the delicacy of
his situation, Avith respect to Matilda, should have
Avar ranted.
Albert made no complaint. He acknoAvletlged the
merit of his rival eagerly, the more eagerly as the
rivalship was suspected. The scene must now change.
1 he action of Quatre Bras has taken place. The
principal body of the British troops are at Brussels,
and the news of the rapid advance of the French is
brought to Wellington; and the forces are, before
break of day, moving forward. But Avhere is Horace'?
I he column of troops to which he belongs is on the
line of march, but Albert, and not he, is at its head.
The enemy are in sight. Glory’s sunbright face
gleams in the front, Avhilst dishonour and infamy
scoavl in the rear. The order to charge is given, and
at the very moment that the battle is about to join,
the foaming, jaded, breathless courser of Horace
strains forward as Avith a last effort, and seems to have
but enough of strength to wheel with its rider into
his station. A faint huzza from the troop welcomed
their leader. On, ye brave, on!
1 he edges of the battle join. The scream—the
shout—the groan, and the volleying thunder of ar-
tillery, mingled in one deafening roar. The smoke
clears aAvay the charge is over—the whirhvind has
passed. Horace and Albert are both down, and the
blood wells away from their wounds, and is drunk up
by the thirsty soil.
But a few days after the eventful battle of Waterloo,
Matilda and Sir Oliver were alone in the drawing-
room. Sir Oliver had read to his daughter, who
was sitting in breathless agitation, the details of
the battle, and was now reading down slowly and
silently the list of the dead and maimed.
“ Can you, my dear girl,” said he, tremulously,
“ bear to hear very bad news'?”
She could reply in no other way than by laying
her head on her father’s shoulder, and sobbing out the
almost inaudible word—“ read.”
“ Horace is mentioned as having been seen early
in the engagement, badly wounded, and is returned
here as missing.”
“ Horrible !” exclaimed the shuddering girl, and
embraced her father the more closely.
“ And our poor friend, Albert, is dangerously
wounded, too,” said the father.
Matilda made no reply ; but, as a mass of snow
slips down from its supporting bank—as silently, as
pure, and almost as cold, fell Matilda from her
father’s arms insensible on the floor. Sir Oliver was
not surprised, but much puzzled. He thought that
she had felt quite enough for her lover, but too much
for her friend.
A few days after, a Belgian officer was introduced
by a mutual friend, and was pressed to dine by Sir
Oliver. As be had been present at the battle, Matilda
would not permit her grief to prevent her meeting
him at her father’s table. Immediately she en-
tered the room the officer started, and took every
opportunity of gazing upon her intently, when he
thought himself unobserved. At last he did so, so
incautiously, and in a manner so particular, that
when the servant had withdrawn, Sir Oliver asked
him if he had ever seen his daughter before.
“ Assuredly not, but most assuredly her resem-
blance,” said he, and he immediately produced the
miniature that Horace had obtained from his mistress.
The first impression of both father and daughter
was, that Horace was no more, and that the token
had been entrusted to the hands of the officer by the
dying lover ; but he quickly undeceived them, by
informing them that he was lying desperately, but
not dangerously, wounded, at a farm-house on the
continent, and that, in fact, he had suffered a severe
amputation.
“ Then, in the name of all that is honourable, how
came you by that miniature V* exclaimed Sir Oliver.
“ O, he had lost it to a notorious sharper, at a
gaming-house in Brussels, on the eve of the battle ;
which sharper offered it to me, as he said he had
supposed the gentleman from whom he won it would
never come to repay the large sum of money for
which it w r as left in pledge. Though I had no per-
sonal knowledge of Colonel Horace, yet, as I admired
the painting, and saw that the jewels were w r orth
more than the rascal asked for them, I purchased it,
really with the hope of returning it to its first pro-
prietor, if he should feel any value for it, either as a
family picture, or as some pledge of affection ; but I
have not yet had an opportunity of meeting with him.”
“ What an insult !” thought Sir Oliver.
“ What an escape !” exclaimed Matilda, when the
officer had finished his relation.


I need not say that Sir Oliver immediately re-
purchased the picture, and that he had no further
thoughts of marrying his daughter to a gambler.
“ Talking of miniatures,” resumed the officer, “ a
very extraordinary occurrence has just taken place.
A miniature has actually saved the life of a gallant
youns officer .of the same regiment.”
“ Pray, Sir, be so kind as to relate the circum-
stance,” said Sir Oliver ; and Matilda looked grate-
fully at her father for the request.
“ O, I do not know them minutely,” said he, “ but
I believe it was simply that the picture served his
bosom as a sort of breast-plate, and broke the force
of a musket-ball, but did not, however, prevent him
from receiving a very smart wound. The thing was
much talked of for a day or two, and some joking
took place on the subject; but when it was seen that
these railleries gave him more pain than the wound,
the subject was dropped, and soon seemed to have
been forgotten.”
Shortly after the officer took his leave.
The reflections of Matilda were bitter. Her mi-
niature had been infamously lost ; whilst the mistress
of Albert, of that Albert whom she felt might, but for
family pride, have been her lover, was, even in effigy,
the guardian of a life she loved too well.
Months elapsed, and Horace did not appear. Sir
Oliver wrote to him an indignant letter, and bade
him consider all intercourse broken off for the future.
He returned a melancholy answer, in which he
pleaded guilty to the charge—spoke of the madness
of intoxication—confessed that he was hopeless, and
that he deserved to be so ; in a word, his letter was
so humble, so desponding, and so dispirited, that even
the insulted Matilda was softened, and shed tears
over his blighted hopes. And here, we must do
Horace the justice to say, that the miniature was
merely left in the hands of the winner, he being a
stranger, as a deposit until next morning, but which
the next morning did notallow him to redeem, though
it rent him from a limb, and left him as one dead
upon the battle field. Had he not gamed, his mi-
niature would not have been lost to a sharper, the
summons to march would have found him at his
quarters, his harrassed steed would not have failed
him in the charge, and in all probability, his limb
would have been saved, and his love have been
preserved.
A year had now elapsed, and at length Albert was
announced. He had heard that all the intimacy had
been broken off between Horace and Matilda, but
nothing more. The story of the lost miniature was
confined to the few whom it concerned, and those few
wished all memory of it to be buried in oblivion.
Something like a hope returned to Albert’s bosom.
He was graciously received by the father, and diffi-
dently by Matilda. She remembered the broken
miniature, and supposed him to have been long and
ardently attached to another.
It was a summer’s evening, there was no other
company, the sun was setting in glorious splendour.
After dinner, Matilda had retired only to the window,
to enjoy, she said, that prospect that the drawing-room
could not afford. She spoke truly, for Albert was
not there. Her eyes were upon the declining sun,
but her soul w r as still in the dining-room.
At length Sir Oliver and Albert arose from the
table, and came and seated themselves near Matilda.
“ Come, Albert, the story of the miniature,” said
Sir Oliver.
“What! fully, truly, and unreservedly? said
Albert, looldng anxiously at Matilda.
“ Of course.”
“ Offence or no offence?” said Albert, with a look
of arch meaning.
“ Whom could the tale possibly offend ?” said Sir
Oliver.
“ That I am yet to learn. Listen.
As far as regarded Matilda, the last word was
wholly superfluous. She seemed to have lost every
other faculty but hearing. Albert in a low, yet
hurried tone, commenced thus :
« I loved, but was not loved. I had a rival that
was seductive. I saw that he was preferred by the
father, and not indifferent to the daughter. My love
I could not—l would not attempt to conceal ; but my
actions, honor bade me control ; and I obeyed. The
friend was admitted where the lover would have been
banished. My successful rival obtained the miniature
of his mistress. O, then, then I envied, and impelled
by unconquerable passion, I obtained clandestinely
from the artist a facsimile of that Avhich I so much
envied him. It was my heart’s silent companion ;
and when at last duty called me away from the ori-
ginal, not often did I venture to gaze upon the
resemblance. To prevent my secret being discovered
by accident, I had the precious token enclosed in a
double locket of gold, which opened by a secret spring,
knoAvn only to myself and the maker.
“ I gazed upon the lovely features on the dawn of
the battle day. I returned it to its resting place, and
my heart throbbed proudly under its pressure. I was
conscious that there I had a talisman, and if I ever
felt as heroes feel, it Avas then —
“ On I dashed through the roaring stream of
slaughter. Sabres flashed above and around me—
what cared I? I had this on my heart, and a brave
man’s sAvord in my hand—and come the Avorst, better
I could not have died than on that noble field. The
shoAvers of fatal balls hissed around me. What cared
I ? I looked round—to my felloAV-soldiers I trusted
for victory, and my soul I entrusted to God, and—
shall I oAvn it ? for a feAv tears to memory I trusted
to the original of this, my bosom companion.”
“ She must have had a heart of ice, had she refused
them,” said Matilda, in a voice almost inaudible from
emotion.
Albert boAved loav and gratefully, and continued —
“ Whilst I Avas thus borne fonvard into the very
centre of the struggle, a ball struck at my heart —
but the guardian angel Avas there, and it was protected ■,
the miniature, the double case, even my flesh Avas
penetrated, and my blood soiled the image of that
beauty for Avhose protection it would have joyed to
fIoAV. The .shattered case, the broken, the blood-
stained miniature, are noAv dearer to me than eA T er,
and so will remain until life shall desert me.”
“ May I look upon those happy features that have
inspired and protected a heart so noble ? ” said Matilda,
in a loav voice, that seemed unnatural to her from the
excess of emotion.
Albert dropped one knee before her, touched the
spring, and placed the miniature in the trembling
hand of Matilda. In an instant she recognised her
OAvn resemblance. She Avas above the affectation of
a false modesty—her eyes filled with grateful tears


—she kissed the crimsoned painting, and sobbed
aloud—“ Albert, this shall never leave my bosom.
O, my well—my long beloved !”
In a moment she was in the arms of the happy
soldier, w T hilst one hung over them with delighted
rapture, bestowing that blest boon upon a daughter’s
love.—“ A father’s heartfelt blessing!”— Scrap-book.
Varieties.
Maternal Love. —Disease, deformity, ingratitude, nothing
can check the flow of maternal love. By entrusting to woman
such a revelation of himself, God has pointed out whom he
intends for his missionaries upon earth—the disseminators of
his spirit, the diffusers of his word. Let men enjoy in peace
and triumph the intellectual kingdom, which is theirs, and
which doubtless was intended for them ; let us participate its
privileges, without desi ing to share its dominion. The moral
world is ours—ours by position; ours by qualification; ours
by the very indication of God himself, who has deigned to
place in woman’s heart the only feeling (that we know of here
existing) which affords the faintest representation of his most
unextinguishable love to us, his erring an I strayed children ;
the only affection which enables the possessor to love on
through sin and folly; and even when sin and folly have brought
their last, worst consummation. Oh, those who know, those
who have witnessed, the lingering yearning of a mother’s love,
after one lost in crime, and wandering, and ingratitude; when
even the father’s heart was turned to stone —the unex-
tinguished, unextinguishable sentiment, lighting up even the
dying eye, and breathed forth in the dying prayer, can alone
judge of these things.— Woman's Mission.
A Solvent Bank. —The best bank ever yet known is a
bank of earth ; it never refuses to discount to honest labour ;
and the best share is the ploughshare, on which dividends are
always liberal.
Practical Men. —Practical men are prejudiced men;
usually knowing the details of their own business well, they
are astonished at the presumption of men who think to improve
the principle. Men are like the writing master who would
not believe that Newton was a great mathematician—“He!
pooh! he is an hour over a sum in the Rule of Three !” This
unbeliever was a practical man, who could not understand the
theory that mastered worlds, and hesitated over the multipli-
cation table.— Bulwer.
A Lesson for Scolding Wives. —“ And I dare say you
have scolded your wife very often Newman,” said I, once.
Old Newman looked down, and the wife took up the reply.
“ Never to signify—and if he has, I deserved it.” “ And I
say, if the truth* were told, you have scolded him quite as
often.” “Nay,” said the old woman, with a beauty of kind-
ness which all the poetry in the world cannot excel, “ bow
can a wife scold her good man who has been working for her
and her little ones all the day ? It may be for a man to be
peevish, for it is he who bears the crosses of the world; but
who should make him forget them but bis own wife? And
she had best for her own sake—for nobody can scold much
when the scolding is all on one side.”— Bulwer's Student.
Romance in Real Life.—l was lounging, the other day,
in the gallery of the senate, listlessly waiting for something of
interest to arise, which might awake me from a kind of magnetic
slumber that the dulness of both houses for the past Week had
produced, when a distinguished senator from arose to make
some remarks. I was seated alongside of a gentleman of
middle age and respectable appearance, who seemed to know
the speaker very intimately. We entered into conversation on
general subjects, the condition of the currency, the state of the
country, the erratic course of Calhoun, the respective merits of
the distinguished members of the body before us, and, finally,
it turned upon the individual who had just spoken, the senator
I have referred to. “ You would not suppose,” said the
gentleman, “that there was any thing like romance in the
character of the senator from . His apparent devotion to
party, his uncouth appearance, his unpoetical temperament,
and his obliquity of head, would seem to render the idea of his
having been the hero of a romance absolutely absurd.
Nevertheless, such is the fact; and his early life presents an
incident which is not surpassed in interest by any that modern
romance affords. Senator is of low and obscure origin.
Nature, however, had given him a good intellect, as if to com-
pensate for the delects of person and fortune. He studied law,
like most young men of any ambition in this country, com-
menced the practice in a populous city in the interior of his
state, and acquired some reputation in the outset of his career.
In the same town resided a young lady of great beauty* wealth,
and fashion, whose smiles were sought by all the young men
in the neighbourhood, but without success, for they failed to
make any impression upon her. The heart of the fair one
remained untouched and unmoved by the soft impeachment of
love. The young barrister, if he thought of her at all, looked
upon her as too high to be reached by one of his bumble
fortunes and unpromising exterior. He pursued the ‘ even
tenor of his way,’ looking to success in his profession, and not
dreaming of lady's love. An important case came up for trial
which excited great interest, and in which he was employed as
junior counsel. The young lady, among others, had the.,
curiosity to attend, and was so charmed and delighted with bis
eloquence, and the ability he displayed on that occasion, that
her proud heart gave way, and became the sport of the most
ardent and romantic passion that has perhaps ever been recorded.
The young lawyer was not long in hearing of the effect he had
produced on the hitherto callous feelings of the beautiful
creature whom be had regarded as beyond the most romantic
visions of his imagination. He visited her, and her attach-
ment was too sincere and ardent to be concealed. This happy
intercourse was kept up for some time, the attachment became
mutual, and they seemed to breathe the atmosphere of paradise,
and to luxuriate in all the joys of Elysium. The strongest
love is often accompanied by jealousy. The fair one, anxious
to try his attachment, had consented to accompany him to a
ball that was to be given in their city ; but, instead of going
with him, she repaired to the ball room under the protection
of one of her former suitors who had not yet relinquished all
hope. The young lover was deeply mortified and wounded at
this evidence of fickleness on the part of the woman he loved,
and he resolved to retaliate. Another ball followed, and,
instead of calling upon bis mistress to escort her to it, knowing
that she bad been invited, be accompanied two young ladies of
his acquaintance, and, on his way, passed the house of the one
he alone loved. She saw him. It was too much for her for-
titude. She thought she had for ever lost his affections, and,
in a fit of despair, she ordered her carriage the next morning,
and departed for Philadelphia, upon the plea of visiting her
uncle, who resided in that city. On her way her melancholy
became so profound that she resolved on self-destruction.
She, therefore, procured, in a village through which she passed,
a quantity of opium, which she instantly swallowed, and was
just able to reach the door of her uncle’s house before she
sunk down and expired. The effect of this shocking event
upon the feelings of Mr. is beyond the power of descrip-
tion. He became, for a long time, moody and melancholy,
and has ever since, it is said, made an annual pilgrimage, cn
the anniversary of her death, to the grave which contains the
remains of her he loved so truly and so well, and strews it with
the flowers of early spring. He has never married, but che-
rishes the memory of bis first love with undying affection.”—
“ This is certainly a piece of romance I did not expect in the
senator you speak of,” said I. A hackneyed party politician
is not one I should charge with so tender a sentiment as that
of enduring love, and he is, too, the last man I should suppose
capable of eliciting such a passion in a young, beautiful, and
wealthy female. But Wilkes and Mirabeau, two very ugly
men, are said to have been omnipotent with the fair, and there
is no accounting for taste.— New York Morning Herald.
Absence of Mind. —A certain Earl, in his extraordinary
fits of absence or abstraction, had a habit of thinking aloud.
It was at White’s. His Lordship was standing before the
fire, looking at himself in the glass, when a certain member of
the club came in. The Earl shook hands with him, and
inquired after his health, talked of the weather and of the
news ; and then suddenly falling into a reverie, looked at him
steadily in the face, and holding him all the time by the button,
said— to himself —“ umph—shall I ask him to dinner? I have
got two places left—l have dined with him twice this season-
must ask him—” then a pause—“ No—some other time, he
is such an infernal bore.” This the patient heard, but as it
was only thinking on the part of the Earl, he could do nothing
but abide his fate. Dining not long after with another Earl,
who shall also be nameless for the sake of his cook, he handed
the countess to table, of which he took the top; and, as he
helped and tasted the different dishes, regularly apologised to
her for the badness of the cuisine —“could not account for it
—thought his cook must be drunk—never served him so before
—not a thing fit to eat”—fancying himself in his own house,
and criticising his own dinner.


The Moralist.
BENEVOLENCE.
When thou considerest thy wants, when thou beholdest thy
imperfections, acknowledge’His goodness, O son of humanity !
who honoured thee with reason, endued thee with speech, and
placed thee in society, to receive and confer reciprocal helps
and mutual obligations.
Thy food, thy clothing, thy convenience of habitation ; thy
protection from the injuries, thy enjoyments of the comforts
and pleasures of life : all these thou owest to the assistance of
others, and couldst not enjoy but in the bands of society.
It is thy duty, therefore, to be a friend to mankind, as it is
thy interest that man should be friendly to thee.
As the rose breatheth sweetness from its own nature, so the
heart of a benevolent man produceth good works.
He enjoyeth the ease and tranquillity of his own breast, and
rejoiceth in the happiness and prosperity of his neighbour.
He openeth not his ear to slander: the faults and the
failings of men give a pain to his heart.
His desire is to do good, and he searcheth out the occasions
thereof; in removing the oppressions of others he relieveth
himself.
From the largeness of his mind, he comprehended) in his
■wishes the happiness of all men; and from the generosity of
his heart, he endeavoureth to promote it.
MORAL MAXIMS.
ALPHABETICALLY ARRANGED.
No. 23.
Beauty, without honesty, is like poison kept in a box of gold.
Be cautious of believing ill, but more cautious of reporting it.
Be circumspect and cautious in whatever you undertake.
Be ever vigilant, but never suspicious.
Before you attempt, consider what you can perform.
Before you give away to anger, try to find a reason for not
being angry.
Before you make a friend, eat a peck of salt with him.
Before you marry, be sure of a house wherein to tarry.
Beggars fear no rebellion.
Beggars have no right to be chusers.
Begin nothing until you have considered how it is to be
finished.
Begin your web properly, and God will supply you with
thread.
Benevolence cannot be better exercised on occasions where
we are forced, as it were, into the company of others, than by
the choice of pleasurable topics of conversation. A little at-
tention will discover these topics. To detect what are the
peculiar riches of another man’s mind, or experience, or
knowledge, is among the happiest of resources. Its exercise
is alike complimentary to the other party, and instructive to
ourselves.— Bentham.
Useless contradiction is another violation of benevolence ;
it is also an exhibition of folly ; for while it manifests impo-
tence, it wounds power.— Ibid.
Riches and Poverty. —That poverty is a real evil it
would be absurd to deny, and that it is the parent of many
other evils, moral no less than physical, experience teaches,
and will for ever teach us. Not only that poverty which
stands between its victims and the common comforts, almost
necessaries, of life, is thus pregnant with sorrow and sin; but
that, too, which closes the access to every elegant enjoyment,
and binds down to petty cares and worldly anxieties the time,
the thought, the whole spirit. But to believe that the reverse
of all this must in itself be happiness, is to have little experience
indeed of life, with all its vanities of pain and disappointment
—of blighted hopes—of unavailing repentance. Some who
have never known what it is to possess riches believe that the
power of dispensing them must and does bring happiness ; but
iu vain does “the widow’s heart sings for joy” if no chord in
the breast of her benefactor echoes to the sound of her
rejoicings—it he feel that there are evils much worse than
poverty. If person 1 regret have closed the heart to sympathy,
he may be beneficent, but the blessings of beneficence do not
return upon him. —New Monthly.
Man. —The mind is the man; and the knowledge of the
mind. A man is but what he knoweth. The sovereignty of
man lieth hid in knowledge, wherein many things are reserved,
which kings with their treasures cannot buy, nor with their
forces command.— Bacon.
Select Poetry.
BURIED FRIENDSHIP.
BY N. MITCHELL.
The weary sun hath sunk in Ocean’s breast;
Fast o’er the orient, clouds their shadows fling ;
In the mute grove, the cushat shuts her wing—
Yet lingering rays illuminate the west;
A trembling, beautiful, and chastened light,
That still reveals the rock and winding rill,
Paints every wood, and sleeps on e'very hill,
And softens down the frown of coming night.
Thus, in the sombre mansions of the dead
When those the heart loves best for ever lie,
Still with us dwells their lovely memory,
And sweetens e’en the bitter tears we shed,
Chases the pining soul’s desponding gloom,
And weaves a halo round their dreary tomb.
THE BLIND BOY TO HIS MOTHER.
My Mother, art thou beautiful ?
Oh ! would that I could see !
Thy voice, like whisper’d melody,
Sounds beautiful to me.
Thy hand feels beautiful in mine,
So soft —so warm—so bright—
Methinks like velvet it must shine,
Beneath man’s glorious sight.
Thy lips feel beautiful—thy kiss
Sweet as unrifled flow’r,
Ere yet the bee has sought its breast,
To steal its virgin dow’r ;
Thy love for me is beautiful,
So tender, and so true,
That in thine eyes 1 read it not,
Mother! I sorely rue.
In all thou must be beautiful,
If there is beauty here;
For what, save God’s most perfect work,
Could hold a blind Boy dear ?
Memoriter.
SONNETS, BY E. MOXON.
HUMAN LIFE.
Ah, what is life ! a dream within a dream !
A pilgrimage from peril rarely free;
A bark that sails upon a changing Sea,
Now sunshine and now storm ; a mountain stream,
Heard, but scarce seen, ere to the dark deep gone ;
A wild star blazing with unsteady beam,
Yet for a season fair to look upon.
Life is an infant on Affection's knee,
A youth now full of hope and transient glee,
In manhood’s peerless noon now bright, anon
A time-worn ruin silver’d o’er with years.
Life is a race where slippery steeps arise,
Where discontent and sorrow are the prize,
And when the goal is won, the grave appears.
woman’s heart.
If 1 were asked what most my soul doth prize
Of all the good gifts men enjoy below,
Whether from Fortune or from Fame they flow,
My answer would be thus. Not wealth, which flies
Away from those who hold it in esteem,
Nor yet the honours proud place hath to give:
These with their donor changing die or live.
Not ev’n earth’s fairest mountain, vale, or stream,
For these at times are ’neath dark winter’s gloom.
Take the world’s pleasure and its loud acclaim,
Leave me but this, like an unsullied name
Which wears for aye the self-same hue and bloom—
Need I the secret of my soul impart?
Be witness ye that love, ’tis woman’s heart.
A SIGH.
A sigh is a wish not yet formed to a word
Which unbidden escapes from the breast;
Then blame not the habit, nor think it absurd,
But consider the heart ill at rest.
Memoriter.


JlottCt.
The Editor does not hold himself responsible for the opinions and
assertions contained in the correspondence and contributions in-
serted in the Colonial Literary Journal.
jBottcc to CCorrcspontrrnts.
We thank a “ Well-wisher” for his Extracts, and will do as he
desires , if our own time is allowed us.
Our Correspondents are requested to observe that the Colonial
Literary Journal Office is now removed to No. 316, Pitt-
street North, (opposite A. Foss' Chemical Drug, and Grocery
Establishment) where all communications to the Editor may be
forwarded (post paid).
CATALLACTICS.
Mercantile Inadequacy—Dowsing the Exchanges
—Remedy for the Evil of an Excess of Extorts
over Imports.
[continued.]
In our last discourse, we showed, by implication, that
money was itself nothing, or next to nothing ; and
we directly asserted that the best economy of a com-
munity—the true condition of-prosperity at which it
ought to aim—was the maintenance, not of a highly
favourable balance of trade, for that was subject to a
heavy tax, but of an approximate equality between
the imports and exports, or an alternate absorption
and reproduction of a moderate balance of exports
over imports. Absorption alone will be easy, but not
sufficient. Reproduction also is necessary to con-
stitute the health of advancing society. It is not
enough that we build, fence, clear, and plant, but w r e
must do so with a view to getting back our money
after many days. We now proceed to consider how
the plethoric tendency of our pastoral pursuits is to
be healthfully relieved. To some it may appear
ridiculous to talk at all in this style ; but, as thinking
men, we are not to allow' our attention to be diverted
by temporary circumstances from the two great facts
by which this colony is at present affected—a
diminution constantly proceeding of effective labour,
and an augmentation still more rapidly progressive of
unemployed capital. The contrary is commonly but
erroneously supposed to be the case, namely, that
men are superabundant and money scarce. It may
be that both these evils might have been averted, had
the grand creditors of the community been more for-
bearing, or had they adopted towards the landed pro-
prietors those measures w-hich the Bank of Australia
so bunglingly, unnecessarily, and injuriously at-
tempted towards the firm of Hughes and Hosking.
Or it may be that the evil would have been only in-
creased by such indulgence. Who can tell'?
When we set up the sheep-farming interest as the
principal interest, the mainstay of the colony, w r e do
well. But we must not allow ourselves to pull too
much at one oar. Politically, as w r ell as catallac-
tically, it is unwise to establish a paramount class,
and it is more particularly so in our case. The
pastoral class, should it augment twenty fold, till
New Holland is overspread with flocks from Sydney
to Perth, and from Port Essington to Port Phillip,
will always be numerically small. Not more than
one-eighth part of our population is directly engaged
in pastoral occupations, and in the tillage connected
with the sheep stations. Add carriers, farriers, shop-
keepers, and merchants, and the proportion is not
greatly increased. The remaining 130,000 must be
supported in some other way, for we cannot reasonably
expect that the sheepovvners are to divide their profits
among the rest, unless for services rendered.
We are decidedly of opinion that the introduction
of any tenure by which the extra-limitarian colonists
would be induced to expend considerable sums of
money in improvements of their stations, to the dis-
regard of the capabilities of the intra-limitary dis-
tricts, is premature by a century. We mean that it
would be bad economy : not that we desire the
squatter to remain in an insecure, unsocial, or joyless
state of society ; but that we desire to see him, as soon
as he has obtained a decided prosperity, become a
settler within the boundaries ; there surrounding him-
self with the comforts and elegancies which wealth
can purchase, and which in the denser state of society
can be better maintained and more thoroughly
enjoyed ; and, in short, satisfy himself with a peri-
odical visit to his runs, and leave the general manage-
ment of them to his sons and trustworthy dependants,
This is the natural and wholesome progress of society.
Large tracts of despoblados, wide uninhabited in-
tervals from one abortive township to another, roadless,
bridgeless, churchless, houseless, and manless, are
proofs of the poverty, decomposition, and mismanage-
ment of society. If anything valuable is desired for
mankind in arts or in morals, it is accomplished by
junction and co-operation of minds for which towns
afford facilities. The inhabitants of the pagi re-
mained the longest pagans —the dwellers in the
mountains have retained wrttched superstitions and
prejudices that have long ago vanished Lorn the
plains. Boor, clown, and savage, are terms of re-
proach solely applicable to rusticating races.
We think indeed that a portion of the surplus now
arising will be absorbed (to be in due time repro-
duced) by the formation of new stations in the distant
interior. And, on the other hand, we do not deny
that the surplus cannot now be beneficially absorbed
by such agriculture as has hitherto been pursued ;
more particularly keeping in mind the probable ad-
vance, for some years hence, in the price of labour.
But we are very sure that to the extension of sheep-
walks there is a limit fixed by considerations of
economy also ; and if, for want of profit, a particular
tillage must be abandoned, so for want of profit, in
like manner, will our pasture runs be circumscribed.
This material difference exists betwixt the two sorts
of occupation : the pasture runs can be applied to no
better purpose ; while the agriculture of the colony
may be varied and improved indefinitely. If wheat
at 14 bushels to the acre, and at 2s. 7d. to the
bushel, be unremunerating, various other articles
yielding an annual or prospective return, promise to
be successful, and will, in all probability, be tried
as soon as mortgagees and trustees can make down
their minds to accept reasonable prices, or grant
encouraging leases.
We may take some early opportunity of show'ing
the advantages derivable from the growth of par-
ticular articles never yet fairly attempted, notwith-
standing the efforts of periodical writers to draw the
attention of landholders to them. When the hideous
optical illusions which at present afflict the colonists
have passed from their brains, we recommend them
to run back over the files of the newspapers during
the last year, and give their best attention to the
subjects there treated of, exempli gratia , those under
the titles of flax, the vine, and silk.


And now, gentlemen, as this second lecture is
rather shorter than perhaps you expected, I propose
to sing you a song :
THE SQUATTER’S ADDRESS TO THE SYDNEY
MERCHANTS.
Youn hearts for joy prfepare, prepare,
And we will fill them full:
Nine million pounds is Sydney’s share
Of our new clip of wool.
Aha!
Fine, clean, new clip of wool!
The steel of Wilkinson has chill’d
The woolly creatures’ backs ;
The laden teams are coming down
O’er rutty roads and tracks.
O hone!
Rough, bridgeless roads and tracks !
Along your narrow dusty street
Slow moves the ten-in-hand,
And early at the merchant’s gate
The sober oxen 6tand.
Ay, ay!
Grave, horn’d cud-chewers stand!
Keep running now your ’longshore craft
To Twofold Bay and Brisbane,
That tack along with swelling sail
Or way with smoke and fizz gain.
A hoy!
That pace with puff and fizz gain !
Clear out your sheds and warehouses
For sorting and for storing ;
Make weather-tight your shingled roofe,
And scrub right clean your flooring.
Yes, yes!
Scrub clean and dry your flooring!
Lay on for cargo all your ships
Of proper class and tonnage,
Tight, staunch, well mann’d, and well supplied
With kentledge and with dunnage.
Well, well!
With grease for weight and dunnage !
Prepare your ledgers thick and broad,
Stout staff of clerks maintain,
Prepare likewise your bankers’ books,
For your cash we mean to drain.
O ho!
Your cash, be sure, we’ll drain !
GAFFER GRAY.
ON THE FORMATION OF EARTHENWARE.
The best clays for the purposes of pottery or earthen-
ware, consist of three proportions of silica and one
of alumina. Silica or flinty earth was treated of in
last week’s Journal. Alumina is in itself an oxide of
a metal called aluminium ; it a colourless powder,
and has a strong attraction for water, which it will
absorb even from moist air, and it thus becomes the
soft substance or clay which abounds throughout the
whole earth, and gives consistency or adhesiveness to
the different soils. It is one of the most abundant
productions of nature, and is found in every region of
the globe, in rocks of all ages, and as a constituent of
the oldest primary mountains. This earth is made
into bricks, pipes, tiles, red pottery, and earthenware,
varying according to its greater or less degree of
purity. Alumina and silica greatly refined, and
purified by heating, are used for the manufacturing of
china and porcelain. Also some of the most pre-
cious stones are formed in the earth by the natural
solutions of those parts which contain a greater pro-
portion of alumina, thus proving that the same
substance employed by us, as the chief ingredient in
the composition of the rough brick-work of our
dwellings, and the delicate materials of our dinner
and tea equipage, does, in the operation of nature,
constitute the ruby, the topaz, and the sapphire,
which adorn the brow of monarchs. Glass, pottery,
and porcelain in all their varieties, are combinations
of silica and alumina, which are the essential ingre-
dients in all the soils of the earth.
Alumina does not affect the blue colour of plants,
yet possesses the properties both of an acid and an
alkali ; as an acid it unites with potass, lime, and
baryta ; as an alkali it forms salts with acids. The
substance well known to us as alum, is a combination
of sulphur, potass, and alumina, and is crystallised
with great facility from a solution containing these
elements.
The Eastern countries have long excelled in the
art of making porcelain, both as to durability and
colouring. The clay in warm climates is more
plastic, which causes the article to acquire a texture
of peculiar toughness, and the Chinese clay is greatly
composed of earth in which silica and alumina are
found in due natural proportions, whereas in many
places, as in England, they must be brought together
and artificially combined. Silica is found in greater
proportion in Staffordshire, and the alumina is con-
veyed there from Devonshire. The soil of this colony
bears incontestible evidence of the great proportions
of these two earths. We here behold it neither too
open and light to prevent its retension of moisture,
neither is it too stiff from the excess of its alumina.
The old Dresden china has ranked equally with the
oriental in texture and colouring, and both French
and English have of late greatly improved their pro-
ductions, but in the manufacture of porcelain, nature
rises above art, and the attainment of strength seen
in the Chinese jars, or the elegant translucency of their
tea utensils, has not yet been more than imitated.
The better kinds of pottery in England are called
Staffordshire ware, the materials of which are artifi-
cially combined, and then heated to a red heat, they
are afterwards quenched in water and reduced to
powder, and then formed into a clay by the addition
of water, and moulded into the shapes required.
These shapes are again burned in a kiln and after-
wards glazed; the glaze is again heated to melt and
smooth it, when the paint or gilding is applied. The
painting is performed by means of those metallic
oxides which have the property of imparting colour ;
black is given by the oxide of iron, cobalt and copper ;
purple or violet, by oxide of gold ; the blue ware of
Staffordshire is coloured by oxide of cobalt, and the
figures are first printed on paper and then applied to
the article while it is hot, when the colour adheres to
the surface. The methods of painting and colouring
glass and earthenware are numerous and various,
many persons have peculiar operations of which they
make a great secret, nevertheless there are standing
regulations which cannot be infringed upon. The
staple commodities for this manufacture are lying
around us in reference to clays and many minerals
necessary for colouring. A philanthropic mind, such
as is possessed by Mr. Boyd, who has, no doubt also,
the wherewith to commence any great undertaking,
might find ultimate benefit to himself in starting a
regular pottery and porcelain manufactory, which
would give employment to a vast number of people,
including chemists, artists, artizans and labourers.


The various kinds of common pottery differ only
in the ingredients which form the clay or body of the
work, and in the glazes applied to them. Common
red pottery is made of brick clay. The English white
ware has a mixture of bone ash, which renders it so
liable to crack, by sudden changes of temperature.
Cream-coloured pottery is made with a great propor-
tion of blue clay found in Cornwall. Devonshire
also produces a bituminous black clay, which becomes
white on being burned. Wine coolers and pots for
growing flower roots, are intended to absorb water,
therefore they pass through but one burning, and the
material is porous. The manufactory of porcelain is
little more than a century old, and was discovered
accidentally by a German lad, an apprentice to a
chemist, in the course of making some experiments
for forming crucibles capable of bearing intense fire.
The first porcelain was made at Dresden and Bottger ;
and this same apprentice youth was made a baron for
producing the first white porcelain in Europe.
B.
PHRENOLOGY.
[For the Colonial Literary Journal.]
No. XVI.
When Dr. Spurzlieim visited St. Bartholomew’s
Hospital, in London, in examining its large col-
lection of skulls, he accidentally took up the skull
of Bellingham, the murderer of Mr. Percival the
Minister ; and, without being aware whose it was,
exclaimed, “ this must he the skull of a murderer !”
And perhaps there never w r as a case in which cra-
niological developement tallied more exactly with the
manifestation of character in any individual. The
circumstances attending this remarkable case must
he known to our readers, as they make some figure
in the history of the reign of George 111. The in-
fatuated conduct of this misguided man goes far to
prove, that, at the time of committing the murder, he
was in a state of insanity, or of actual idiocy ; so
great a perversion of reason, or rather the total want
of it, and of the principle of right or wrong, together
with so overpowering a developement of the pro-
pensities, more particularly of Combativeness and
Destructiveness, as manifested in his conduct both
before and after his committing the dreadful crime
for which he suffered, proving him to have been an
individual fitter for a lunatic asylum than an object
of capital punishment. But so flagrant an offence,
a murder rendered still more atrocious from the un-
offending character of the victim of this wretched
man, the impossibility of his being a just object of
resentment to him, all combined to inflame the minds
of men, and to call for speedy vengeance on the head
of the murderer ; when, had the trial been delayed
till the popular agitation had subsided, and reason,
removed from the influence of passion, left coolly to
consider, there is no doubt that instead of having
been found a fit person to satisfy the outraged laws
of his country, Bellingham would have passed the
remainder of his days in a madhouse. In his skull,
Benevolence, Ideality, Conscientiousness, Comparison
and Causality, are small, Cautiousness moderate;
Combativeness, Destructiveness, are very large ; and
Acquisitiveness, Self-esteem, and Firmness large.
He never evinced the smallest pity at the cruel deed
he had committed, nor the least remorse for an action
so heinous, persisting to the last, notwithstanding the
most urgent solicitations to the contrary by his clerical
attendant, in denying that the murder of Mr. Percival
was a wrong action. Here we see his want of Bene-
volence and Conscientiousness, and also his deficiency
in reason, that grand distinction between man and
the brutes, to whom the unfortunate being we are
treating of was so closely allied. Ideality was a
small organ in his head ; and it is deserving of re-
mark, that it is generally deficient in all, but more
especially in executed criminals. That refinement
and delicacy, and those constant aspirations of the
soul after perfection, which are bestowed on the man
blessed with a large developement of this organ, are
opposed to, and inconsistent with, the mean depravity
and savage atrocity of the abandoned criminal/ His
moderate Cautiousness is apparent in all his actions,
but chiefly in the unguarded manner in which he
satisfied his thirst for vengeance, and in the absence
of anything like precaution or desire to evade a
capture. He stated to the magistrate, previously, his
intention of committing the murder, if justice were
not done to him ; and, after the deed, so far from
secreting himself from the pursuit of justice, he openly
declared that he was the assassin, and expressed his
wish to be taken, in order that a fair trial should be
given to him, when he hoped to prove that he was
perfectly justified in taking away the life of his
victim, to defeat the Attorney-General, and to have
all his wrongs redressed ! Can any one doubt that
this man was in a state of insanity ? Acquisitiveness
and Self-esteem were largely developed, and such a
developement, without the counteracting qualities,
would produce a spirit of selfishness ; combined with
his small Conscientiousness, and deficient reasoning
powers, it caused him to regard everything as unjust
and wrong that was in the least opposed to his interest.
His Firmness was also large, and his obstinate per-
severance in continuing to pester the authorities with
one petition after another about his imagined wrongs
and grievances, fully confirm the developement of the
organ. Upon the whole, a more remarkable proof
of the doctrines upheld by Phrenologists, it is perhaps
impossible to find ; certainly the case is unanswerable
to the sceptic on Phrenology, and should prove an
inducement to others who only doubt from ignorance,
to give the science a fair and impartial investigation.
We will now turn to a case of an executed criminal,
differing someAvhat from the above, and which ap-
peared, at the time at which it happened, to militate
against the science; the developement of the culprit,
so far from being that which generally characterises
the murderer, appearing to bespeak a noble and
exalted character, but in reality tallying most ex-
actly with his disposition. The case alluded to is
that of David Haggart, who was executed at Dumfries
for the murder of the turnkey of the jail in which he
was confined for theft. It w T as while attempting to
escape from his cell that he murdered his hapless
victim, who had attempted to oppose his escape, and
not from any premeditated scheme of vengeance.
Combativeness, Secretiveness, Self-esteem, and Firm-
ness, w r ere very large in his head ; Benevolence was
large, and Destructiveness scarcely more than full ;
Love of Approbation and Conscientiousness were
small, and Ideality was very small. Such a peculiar
developement in the head of a murderer was eagerly
seized upon by the opponents of the science as an
evidence of its fallacy : it was found that Benevolence


was large, and Destructiveness only full ; that was
enough; they looked no farther, but immediately
passed a verdict of condemnation upon Phrenology.
But had the case been different, had Benevolence been
small instead of large, and Destructiveness very large
instead of being as it was, only full, then indeed
would Phrenology have been at fault, and actually
wrong in its application to such a case. But Haggart,
although a great thief, the consequence of deficient
Conscientiousness, and a very depraved person, prin-
cipally from keeping the abandoned society that he
kept, was far from being the blood-thirsty person lie
was imagined to be. Among his companions he was
noted for his generous and kind-hearted disposition ;
and £fter he had committed the dreadful crime for
which he suffered, his horror and agony of mind
were so great that he was always in tears bewailing
his fatal rashness. All this, the result of large
Benevolence, was perfectly consistent with his de-
velopement, which was such as to cause him to feel
horror at cruelty. We do not find him manifesting
the same remorse at the robberies he had committed,
nor would such remorse have been consistent with his
small organ of Conscientiousness. It may be asked
then, w'hat induced him to commit so heinous a crime 1
The love of liberty and aversion to restraint, natural
to all men, but particularly so to an individual pos-
sessed of so large a developement of Firmness, Self-
esteem, and Combativeness, as was Haggart, caused
him to endeavour to escape from his place of con-
finement; and the opposition of the turnkey, acting
upon an inflamed Combativeness, led him to commit
a crime which in his calmer moments it was hell to
him to think upon. His small Ideality, as in the
preceding case, was also a characteristic developement
of Haggart’s; and, as in the case of Bellingham, the
amount of brain behind the ear was much larger than
the amount before, but not in so great a degree as in
the last mentioned. Love of Approbation was also a
small organ in the developement of Haggart, and
accounts in some measure for his depraved habits ;
persons having this organ small, following the bent
of their inclination and passions, without regard to
what may be thought respecting their conduct by
society.
ÆNEAS.
LOCAL NEWS.
Corporation Dinner.—A dinner was given on Tuesday
evening last, at Petty’s hotel, by the newly-elec'.ed members
of the City Council to their seniors in office. At this sump-
tuous entertainment, (for it certainly deserved that designation)
was introduced, for the first time in this colony, a°practice
which forms so principal and pleasing a feature in, and tends
so much to enhance the enjoyment oi, similar entertainments
m the mother country ; w e allude to the old established custom
of responding to the various toasts with appropriate glees. &c.
We have been informed that the gentlemen who performed
had not received anything lihe sufficient notice to prepare for
the occasion ; but we must say, nevertheless, that we have
seldom heard concerted music equally well performed, and
certainly, never in New South Wales.
Mirder.—A most painful sensation has been excited during
the last few days by the discovery, on Saturday evening last,
ot the murder ol a Mr. Thomas \Varne, a merchant’s collector,
well kuown in Sydney, which, for the disgusting atrocity of its
details, has seldom been paralleled. An inquest was held on
the body on Tuesday, during which voluminous evidence was
adduced. The Jurv found a verdict of wilful murder against
two men, James Bidet}, and John Duval. Our space will not
allow us to say more than that, after the murder of Mr. Warne
w ' V u t? - t . ClleS 111051I 11051 shockingly mutilated the body, and partly
° n ame firo 0,1 which il a PPears they immediately
uitei wards cooked provisions.
Ti-gg’s Commercial Almanac for 1845. By the polite-
ness of the publisher (VV. A. Coleman, late Tegg) we have
been favored with a copy of the above. Its usual superiority
as a colonial production is, in the present instance, well sus-
tained. For beauty of typography, perspicuity of arrangement,
and the extent and variety of its contents, it cannot well be
surpassed.
THE IRISH SCHOOLMASTER.
From Mr. Lover's Rory O'More.
The evening was closing as Phelim O’Flannagan
strolled up the boreen leading to the widow O'More’s
cottage. On reaching the house he saw the widow
sitting at the door knitting.
“God save you, Mrs. O’More !” said Phelim.
“ God save you kindly !” answered the widow.
“ Faith, then, it’s yourself is the industherous
woman, Mrs. O’More, for its working you are airly
and late : and to think of your being at the needles
now, and the evenin’ closin’ in !”
“Oh, I don’t call this work,” said the widow;
“ it is only jist to have something to do, and not be
lost with idleness, that I’m keepin’my hand goin’.”
“ And your eyes too, ’faith—and God spare them
to you,”
“ Amin, dear,” said the widow.
“And where is the colleen , that she isn’t helpin
your’
“ Oh, she’s jist gone beyant the meadow there, to
cut nettles for the chickens—she’ll be in in a minit.
Won’t you sit down, Mr. O’Flannagan'?—you’d
betther dhraw a sate.”
“I’m taller standin’, Mrs. O’More, thank you all
the same, ma’am. And where would Rory be ?”
“ Why, indeed, the scholar wint out shootin’, and
Rory wint wid him. —It’s fond of the sport he is,
Mr. O’Flannagan, as you know.”
“ Thrue for you ma’am ; —it’s hard if I would n’t
w'hen I sot over him for five years and betther ; and
hard it was to keep him undher ; for he was always
fond o’ sport.”
“ But not the taste o’ vice in him, Phelim dear,”
said the mother.
“ No, no, Mrs. O’More, by no manes, nothing but
heart and fun in him ; but not the sign o’ mischief.
And why would n’t he like to go a start with the
young gintleman a-shootin’ 1 ? The dog and the gun
is tempting to man ever since the days o’ Yargil him-
self, who says with great beauty and discrimination,
‘ Airma virumque cano; which manes, ‘arms, men,
and dogs,’ which is three things that always goes
togither since the w-ord began.”
“ Think o’ that now ! said the widow ; “ and so
Vargo used to go shootin’!”
“ Not exactly, Mrs. O’More, my dear, besides, the
man’s name was not Vargo, but Vurgil. Vargo, Mrs.
O’More, manes the Vargin.”
“God forgi’ me!” said the w'idow ; “is it the
blessed Vargin I said w r int shootin’'?” and she crossed
herself.
“No, Mrs. O’More, my dear, by no manes. Vargo
manes only vargin ; which is not blessed, without
you join it with something else. But Vargil was
the man’s name ; he was a great Roman pote.”
“ Oh, the darlin’ !” said the widow ; “ and was he
a Roman.
“ Not as you mane it, Mrs. O’More, my dear ; he
was not a good Catholic—and more’s the pity, and a
sore loss to him ! But he did n’t know betther, for


they were lost in darkness, in them days, and had not
the knowledge of uz.—But whin I say he was a
Roman, I mane he was of that famous nation —(and
tarin’ fellows they wor !) — Romani populi, as we say,
his nativity being cast in Mantua, which is a famous
port of that counthry, you persaive, Mi s. O’More.”
Here Mrs. O’More dropped her ball of worsted :
and Phelim, not wishing a word of his harangue to
be lost, waited till the widow was reseated and in a
state of attention again.
“ Mantua, I say, Mrs. O’More, a famous p'ort of
the Romani populi —the port of Mantua —which re-
tains to this day the honour of Yargil’s nativity bein’
cast in that same place, you persaive, Mrs. O’More.”
“ YUs, yis, Mr. O’Flannagan, I’m mindin’ you, sir.
Oh, what power o’ lamin’ you have! Well, well,
but is wonderful!—and sure I never heerd afore of
any one bein’ born in a portmantia.”
“Oh, oh, oh, oh! Mrs. O’More! No, my dear
ma’am,” said Phelim, laughing, “ I did n't say he
was born in a portmantia ; I said the port of Mantua,
which was a territorial possession, or domain, as I
may say, of the Romani populi , where Vargil had his
nativity cast, —that is to say, was born.”
“ Dear, dear ! what knowledge you have, Mr.
O’Flannagan, and no wonder you’d laugh at me. But
sure no wondher at the same time, when I thought
you wor talkin’ of a portmantia, that I would wonder
at a child bein’ sent into the world in that manner.”
“ Quite nath’ral, Mrs. O’More, my dear, quite
nath’ral,” said Phelim.
“ But can you tell me ”
“ To be sure I can,” said Phelim : “ what is itl”
“ I mane, would you tell me, Mr. O’Flannagan, is
that the place portmantias comes from ?”
“ Why, indeed, Mrs. O’More, it is likely, from the
derrywation, that it is: but, you see, these is small
thrifles o’ history that is not worth the while o’ great
min to notice ; and by raison of that same we are left
to our own conjunctures in sitch matthers.”
“ Dear, dear ! Well—but, sir, did that gintleman
you wor talkin’ about go a-shootin’—that Mr.
Yarjuice
Vargil, Mrs. O’More, —Var-gil,” said Phelim,
with authority.
“ I beg bis pard’n and yours, sir.”
“No offince, Mrs. O’More. Why, ma’am, as for
goin’ shootin’, he did not ; and for various raisons:
guns was scarce in thim times, and gunpowdher, was
not in vogue, hut was, by all accounts, atlhributed to
Friar Bacon posteriorly,”
“ Oh, the dirty divils !” said the widow, “ to fry
their bacon with gunpowdher, that bates all I ever
heerd.”
Phelim could not help laughing outright at the
widow’s mistake, and was about to explain, but she
was a little annoyed at being laughed at, and Rory
O’More and the Scholar, as he was called, having
returned at the moment, she took the opportunity of
retiring into the house, and left Phelim and his expla-
nation and the sportsmen altogether.
“ I’m tarnation angry with you, Zekiel, for stealing them
there kisses from me t’other night,” said our little “ help,”
Rebecca, to her sweetheart. “Ah !” says Zekey, “ I’m darn’d
afeard that I’ve been precious unhappy in my conscience ever
since, and I’m come now for the ’dentical purpose of giving
every one on ’em back agin.*’
Original Poetry.
AN OLD MAN’S TALE.
By the Australian Shepiif.rd.
I stood beside an aged man, who gazed upon the sea,
I said aloud, “ llow beautiful”—when thus spake he to me : —■
“ The ocean’s face is fair and smooth—its dimples are of gold;
But oh, its smile is treacherous—tho’ beauteous to behold !
Thou sers’t yon proud and stately bark its snowy sails expand,
To court the fair and swelling breeze that bears it from the
land;
Yet ere the night be passed and gone, its proud hearts may be
cold,
For oh, the sea is treacherous —tho’ beauteous to behold !
I had two fair and lovely sons-—to sea they went away:
How dreary lone seemed then the nights—how wearifu’ each
day;
And as the weeks and months flew by, my heart grew sick
and cold,
For oh, the sea is treacherous —tho’ lovely to behold!
The younger, he was beautiful, with eye like to the sea,
When not a murmuring breeze disturbs its deep tranquillity;—
His locks were bright as are the waves the sun hath dyed with
gold ;
But oh, how treacherous is the wave —tho’ fair ’tis to behold!
These eyes did ne’er see him again ; —a stranger came to tell
Of what my boding heart foretold—of what my boy befel; —
The wild wave swept him off the deck, —so dauntless and so
bold,
For oh, the wave is treacherous—tho’ grand ’tis to behold!
The elder, he was wrecked, alas! hard by his native land,
Near craggy rocks, where surges fret the cave-worn rugged
strand ;
I saw that sea within its breast my last fond boy enfold.
For oh, its grasp is treacherous—tho’ mighty to behold!
The mountain waves sweep wildly on—they leave nor trace
nor track ;
They are no tell-tales of the past —they take, but ne’er give
back; —
They feel no change of rude decay—they fade not, nor grow old,
Yet oh, the deep is treacherous—tho’ beauteous to behold!
Beneath the blushing rose so fair, there lurks full many a
thorn, —
Beneath the lip that’s wreathed in smiles, lies deep the hidden
scorn,
So trust not outward beauty—my simple tale is told—
’Tis like the sea that’s treacherous—tho’ beauteous to behold !”
MY WIFE’S DIARY.
( From Punch.)
Now, Punch, lam a married man. Yesterday I found a little
note-book in the passage. It turned out, on inspection, to be
my wife’s; and to contain—what think you ?—a journal, which
that woman has been keeping since our marriage. The ensu-
ing is an extract therefrom. Punch, you are a gentleman, and
therefore I hope you will insert it. If you were a lady, indeed,
I imagine you hardly would ; besides, I should wish no lady
to take a leaf out of my wife’s book. Here, however, sir, is
one at your service :—•
“ Sunday. —Charles out late last night; not up this morn-
ing till twelve ; breakfast not over till one. Wished particu-
larly to goto church ; my new ldac bonnet with pink trimmings
came home yesterday. Couldn’t go, of course. The Walkers
and Hutchinses there, and all! Very angry with Charles ;
would’nt talk to him at dinner; went up afterwards into the
dressing-room, and there sat by myself, When I came down
again, found him smoking and reading the paper. That
Edwards called this evening. Knew Charles would ask him
to stay supper. Slipped out directly after tea; locked the
larder, took the key of the cellar, and went to bed ; hope they
were comfortable !


“ Monday. Charles very cross morning, about last
night; but coaxed him over, and made him promise me that
dear shawl. Paid for week’s housekeeping. Mem. ; to get
those open-worked stockings. Charles out at half-past ten.
Mrs. Saunders called. How well she manages Saunders!
Mem.; Not to forget her hint about the save in sugar. Charles
home again, for a wonder, at four ; said he had been for a walk
with Bradshaw. Steaks for dinner. Charles never asked me
what cut I would like ; contradicted me about the horse-radish,
when I knew I was right; and would eat spring onions with
cream-cheese when I told him not.
“ Tuesday.— Charles up in his little room, writing all day.
Went out shopping with Susan and the baby. Ordered the
brown sugar instead of the lump, and put by the difference for
sundries. Got the dear shawl. Met the Wellses, and heard
that Mr. Charles was seen at the Pantheon. What did he want
there I should like to know 1 [Mem. to find out.] After
dinner (shoulder of mutton) Charles reading. Baby cried.
Charles wanted it sent up stairs—how very reasonable—the
poor dear was teething—would’nt hear of such a thing.
Charles went out in a tiff, and never came home again till two
in the morning. Said he had been kept up talking over busi-
ness. Business indeed ! His eyes were so red, and he smelt
so dreadfully of cigars ! The cold shoulder of mutton for you,
sir, tomorrow.
“Wednesday. —My lord wanted soda-water this morning.
In his tantrums at breakfast because there were no bloaters.
Went out directly after. Asked him if he was going to the
Pantheon ?—took no notice. Oh, I am afraid he is very sly,
Ordered the cold shoulder and no rice pudding to day.
Bought the stockings. Home came Charles to dinner with a
friend—so vexed about the bill of fare—serve him right!
“ Thursday. —Charles away again early, told me not to
wait for him. Nice lamb chops, all alone, at two. Charles
back, at half-past twelve; saw a play-bill hanging-out of his
pocket, and taxed him when he admitted he had been at
Drury-lane. Why couldn’t he have taken me.
“ Friday. —He wanted half-a-dozen pocket handkerchiefs,
and gave the money for them. Got him four—quite enough
for him. Bought a nice cardinal. Saw such a love of a work-
box in a shop in Regent-street—five guineas—oh, how my
fingers itched for it. Charles this afternoon in a good humour ;
gave him a broad hint about the work-box. I shall get it.
“ Satutday. —Charles scolding this morning about his
wristbands, which had no buttons. Sewed them on myself,
and pacified him. Asked him if he would like to dine out to-
day ? Said No. How provoking! for I wanted to spend the
day at Mrs. Hopkin’s Had a few words about the mutton,
whether it should be boiled or roast; but thought it best to
give way. Surprised him at dinner with college dumplings,
my own making. Mixed him a nice glass of brandy and
water. Got the work-box.”
There, Punch. lam already your debtor for many a good
joke ; increase the obligation by one more—that of letting me
show my wife the above in print.—l am, &c.,
BENEDICTUS.
EXTRACTS.
A Snake Fight. —Between half-past five and six o’clock
this morning, I hired a hack and palankeen carriage, and drove
out in it to my plantation, situate in the district of Bnkit
Teman, and distant about two miles from town. On arriving
there, I alighted from my carriage; and, as I walked a few
paces forward, my attention was suddenly attracted by a
strange sort of noise, as if something was approaching me from
a brushwood on both sides of the road. The moment I heard
it, I began to reprove myself for not having taken fire-arms
with me as a protection from being assaulted by anything that
mio-ht, perchance, have encountered me on the way; and, in
this awkward and unpleasant dilemma, my fears .soon got the
better of me, more especially when no object of any kind was
discernible, save and except the shaking of some of the small
trees about the brushwood on my left. I therefore came to
the conclusion which anybody else, under similar circumstances,
would naturally have done, that a tiger had, by some means,
contrived to find its way thither ; so taking the precaution not
to walk solitaire, I called out to the groom, and desired him to
tie the pony to a tree, and follow as close behind me as pos-
sible, after which I proceeded on leisurely to see what progress
the plantation had made since I lastvisited it. I had scarcely,
however, moved ten paces, yvhen, to my inexpressible joy and
astonishment, I beheld, at only six yards distant from me, two
snakes, firmly twisted together, and endeavouring, in most
vindictive rage, to lacerate each other by means of their jaws.
The combat, however, did not last more than five minutes, the
smallest of them (about three and a half feet long, which the
groom said was a water snake) having managed by this time
to extricate itself from the grasp of its antagonist, in a
most precipitate manner betook itself into the Ilocher Canal,
between the estate and the public road. On perceiving this,
the latter, (about four feet long, with black and white spots all
over it, and superior in strength, as it ultimately turned out)
instantly assumed a new posture, pursued the smaller one with
celerity, overtook and attacked it again ; but, in doing so, I
have every reason to believe it met with no ordinary reception,
as the water snake had, to all appearance, placed itself in an
attitude, immediately over a small log of wood, to resist the
attack of its enemy. The that now ensued was, I assure
you, uncommonly beautiful, and such as I had never before
witnessed ; for, owing to the water being rather shallow and
clear in some parts of the canal, into which both the snakes
fell during the struggle, I traced them very distinctly, and saw
them bite each other with indescribable fury, The larger
one, however, seemed to retain its wonted superiority to the
last; for, by fixing its head exactly above that of the other, it
bit and incessantly pressed it down under the water, until it
finally stifled and sunk it. So soon, therefore, as the victor
perceived that he had gained the conquest, erecting its
head in a most majestic manner, it abandoned its enemy to the
current, and gradually disappearing in the jungle, was followed
by me and two or three natives as far as the unwelcome ap-
pearance of the place admitted of our doing so. One of the
spectators, a Chinaman, availing himself of my absence (as I
was subsequently informed,) took the dead reptile out of the
water, and, to my sorrow and disappointment, walked off with
it that very instant—l say “ sorrow and disappointment,”
because I had fully purposed, on returning to town, to bring
the snake with me, in order that the actual cause of its death
might be minutely examined into ; that is, whether it proceeded
from suffocation, or from the venom of its antagonist. In
conclusion, I beg to add here, that the conflict from the first
moment of my discovering it, until its finale, did not occupy
less than three-quarters of an hour altogether; and that it was
witnessed by several Chinese and Malays, besides the groom
and myself.— Correspondent of the Strait's Messenger, Singapore.
Prince Aleert Sketched by a French Nobleman. —
On being presented to Prince Albert, who condescended to
question me respectjng my travels in Europe, I spoke to him
at some length of his brother, in whose company I had supped
with the King of Saxony, when the prince came to Dresden to
introduce his wife to that court; the newly-married princess
was daughter of the Grand Duke of Baden. Queen Victoria’s
husband is, as is well known, a remarkably handsome man,
such as the imagination of a romance-writer would select for
the model of the hero he presents to his admiring readers.
He is said to be serious and cold: I found him, on the con-
trary, full of animation and courtesy. His mode of expressing
himself was as pleasing as his reception of me was affable.
He speaks French most elegantly.— Viscount D'Arlincourt's
Three Kingdoms.
The Queen and her Ball. —l had only been a short
time in London when her majesty Queen Victoria gave a grand
ball. In order to obtain an invitation, I ought to have been
introduced at court; but as since my arrival, there had been
no levees, I had no opportunity of being presented. I was
lamenting this disappointment when I received a card from
her majesty, who condescended to dispense with the usual
etiquette in my favour * * The Queen had already
entered the ball-room, and had fhe extreme kindness to make
several inquiries after me, the string of carriages having
delayed my arrival. The French ambassador, the Comte de
St. Aulaire, hastened to present me to her Majesty. She was


seated on a throne at the end df one of the galleries of tha
palace, and was surrounded by the principal ladies of the court:
among them was the Princess Clementine of Saxe Coburg,
daughter of Louis Philippe, who had recently arrived with her
husband from Portugal. The Queen wore a white dress,
trimmed with bouquets interspersed with precious stones.. Her
coiffure was composed of flowers and diamonds, forming a
toilette of the richest and yet most simple elegance. Her
smile was most affable, and her personal appearance extremely
graceful. Rising at my approach, her Majesty condescended
to address me in French ; which, as well as almost all the
European languages, she speaks admirably, and expressed her-
self in the most flattering manner. I had thus, to my great
satisfaction, a favourable opportunity for.contemplating her.
Her features beamed with hope and happiness. * * *
In her husband she possesses the handsomest prince of the
age ; and this husband is entirely devoted to her, adoring her
as a mistress and respecting her as a master. In the heir to
her throne she possesses a son whom she idolizes, adding
another to the many joys which fall to her share ; while her
own character displays the firmness of a man with the attractive
gentleness of a woman. A people, enthusiastically prostrate at
her feet, attribute to her none of the evil, and bless her for all
the good that occurs. What a destiny, and what an existence !
—lbid.
The Queen’s Dancing. —Accustomed to the fetes of Paris,
where it is usual to walk through a quadrille, I was delighted
to witness a ball where real dancing was in fashion. The
orchestra was perfect, and the coup d’eeil of the ball-room was
dazzling. The Queen*of England has the prettiest little foot
in the world, and she dances in the most charming manner :
it is said, moreover, that, being mistress of every accomplish-
ment, she sings enchantingly. How many crowns at one and
the same time are her’s! In each of the saloons of the palace
a throne and dais were erected. As soon as the youthful
sovereign had finished dancing in one apartment, she recom-
menced in the next; her arrival in and departure from each
room being announced by the national air of “ God save the
Queen.” All this gave a new impulse to the fete, as from her
Majesty’s constantly changing her position, each of the ladies
seated in the different salons had the satisfaction in turns of
seeing her pass close to them.— lbid.
COMMERCIAL REVIEW.
Business during the past week has ruled exceedingly dull’
as the wool season advances, it is confidently expected, that
an improvement in commercial affairs will result from the
cheering prospects of this market: clean samples of the new
clip have realized at auction as much as Is. sd. per lb., the
average price may be quoted at Is. 3d. per lb.
Sperm Oil. —The cargo, ex Mary, of 1800 barrels has
changed hands at £5B per tun, and is being transhipped per
Lanchester, for the London market. The Potomac, an American
whaler, with 2000 barrels, has called here for supplies on her
homeward passage.
Tea. —There has been but little activity in this market,
sales have Teen few and unimportant, good samples of black
tea are scarce, and*in demand.
Sugar. —The transactions in this market have been upon
a very limited scale, only for immediate wants, and prices
remain as former quotations.
Cigars. —The importation ex Janet, realized at auction,
No. 3, from 86s. to 90s. ; No. 4, 635. to 755. per thousand, in
bond. The competition was confined principally to the trade.
In other articles no alteration has occurred worthy of note.
B. S. LLOYD
Commission Agent, Bridge-street.
November 27th, 1844.
Shipping Intelligence.
ARRIVALS.
November 21.—The barque Emily , 580 tons, Captain
Greaves, from Dublin 18th July* and Hobart Town the 11th
instant, with government stores. ,
November 21.—The brig Giraffe, 264 tons, Captain Harvey,
from Launceston the 10th instant.
November 23.—The barque Agincourt, 543 tons, Captain
Neatby, from Woolwich Bth July, Cape of Good Hope 24th
September, and Norfolk Island the 12th instant.
November 23.—The brig Louisa, 182 tons, Captain Tucker,
from Hobart Town the 17th instant.
November 23.—The brig Christina, 126 tons, Captain
Saunders, from Port Phillip the 20th instant, with potatoes, &c.
November 23.—The barque Terror, 257 tons, Captain
Harper, from the Whale Fishery, with 500 barrels of black
and 200 barrels of sperm oil, having left Sydney on the 24th
September, 1843.
November 24.—The steamer Sovereign, 119 tons, Captain
Cape, from Morefon Bay the 20th instant, with 115 bales wool,
34 casks tallow, &c.
November 24. —The ship Potomac, 356 tons, Captain Hus-
sey, from the Whale Fishery, having left Nantucket 14th
November, 1841, with 2200 barrels sperm.
November 24.—The schooner Lady Leigh, 118 tons, Cap-
tain Reid, from Port Nicholson the Bth instant, and Queen
Charlotte’s Sound the 12th instant, in ballast.
November 25. —The schooner Ware, 65 tons, Captain Birk-
insliaw, from Port Phillip the 20th instant.
November 26.—The steamer Maitland, 103 tons, Captain
Parsons, from Port Macquarie with sundries.
November 27.—The brig Eleanor, 253 tons, Captain Mac-
farlane, from Port Nicholson 4th instant, with merchandise.
Novfember 27. —The brig Tryphena, 131 tons. Captain
Hindmarsh, from Auckland 29th October, with Manganese.
November 27. —The schooner Wanderer, 131 tons, Captain
Burns, from Port Nicholson the Ist instant, and Queen
Charlotte’s Sound the 10th instant, with oil and flax.
DEPARTURES.
November2l.—The ship Sydney, Captain White, for London.
November 21.—The brig Portenia, Captain Richards, for
the Isle of Pines.
November 21.—The schoooner William, Captain Freeman,
for Moreton Bay.
November 22.—H.M.5. Vestal, 26 guns, Captain Charles
Talbot, for Hongkong.
November 22.—The steamer Shamrock, Captain Gilmore,
for Port Phillip and Launceston.
November 23.—The steamer James Watt, Captain Taggart,
for Hobart Town.
November 26.—The brig Caroline, Captain J. G. Loten, for
Launceston.
November 26. —The schooner Mary Anne , Captain Amner,
for Launceston.
Bratus.
On the 10th July last, at Portsea, Edmund Ives, Esq.,
(brother-in-law of Mr. Campbell, sen., George-street,) aged-
seventy-six ; a master in the Royal Navy,—respected by all
who knew him, for integrity, bravery, and gentlemanly conduct.
Mr. Ives was master of the Diamond frigate when his captain,
Sir Sidney Smith, was taken prisoner, in the Seine River r
three years after Mr. Ives was master of the Tiger, and served
in that ship at the gallant defence of Acre.
On the 19th instant, drowned at Yass, Miss Hannah Moses,
aged 14 years, and also Miss Sarah Moses, aged 12 years,
both much regretted by all who knew them for their amiable
qualities.
COLONIAL LITEKAEY JOURNAL.
SIXPENCE each will be given for clean Copies of the
J FIRST NUMBER of th e Colonial Literary Journal.
Apply at the Office, 316, Pitt-street.
ORDER POUND.
OUR Collector found, on Saturday last, an Order on Captain
Fotheringham, payable to Bearer. The owner can have
it returned to him, by calling at this Office, and paying the
expence of this advertisement.
COIONIAI DITRRiIRY JOURKT.&I..
BINDING.
THE Publishers have been requested by several subscribers
to make arrangements for the binding of the first Vol.
of the Colonial Literary Journal, which will be completed with
the Twenty-seventh Number. Subscribers are informed that
the Publishers will be ready to receive copies to be bound to
order, by which, from the number already engaged for, a con-
siderable saving will be effected to each individual.
EMPOaTANT.
ALL sorts of Brass Castings supplied at Is. per pound,
Cash ; if booked Is. 3d. per pound. Patterns, if made,
charged for.
C. M. CRIGHTON,
Kent and Clarence Streets.


THE PAHEAMiLTTA STEAMERS
EMU and COMET.
From Parramatta at past 7 a.m., 12 (noon), and § past 4 p.m.
From Sydney at 9 a.m., 12 (noon), and £ past 4 p.m.
THESE well-known Packets sail
punctually as advertised, and afford
a safe, comfoi'table, cheap and expeditious
conveyance for passengers and goods to
and from the interior.
WOOL and other produce transmitted from Parramatta as
it arrives, and stored free at the Commercial Wharf, Sydney ;
and, if in quantity, ivill be delivered alongside any Ship or Wharf
in the Harbour , without additional charge.
Apply at Parramatta, on board the steamer Experiment; or
in Sydney, at the Commercial Wharf, to
J. PATERSON,
• Manager.
2£lisra STREET FURNITURE WAREHOUSE.
J 41 ILL begs to call the attention of the public to his
a extensive stock of Furniture, the whole of which has
been manufactured under his personal superintendence, and
is of the best materials and workmanship.
In purchasing at the Establishment of J. H., parties can
depend on being supplied with decent and durable Articles,
at THE LOWEST PRICES IN THE CITY.
GENERAL PRINTING OFFICE,
No. 316, Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE above Office having been removed from 133, King-
street, to those commodious premises, No. 316, PITT
STREET, (opposite Mr. Foss’ Drug and Grocery Establishment)
arrangements are completed for the quick and accurate per-
formance of Book Work and Job PRINTING, in all its
branches, and to any extent.
J. Reading respectfully solicits a continuance of those
favours which have been extended to him during the last four
ON SALE, by the Undersigned,—
London bottled sherry (very superior), 16s. per dozen
London bottled port (very superior,), 18s. 6d. per dozen
Invoices of brown and foolscap paper, ironmongery, hard-
ware, and a miscellaneous stock of goods in general use, either
by the package or in small quantities.
ALSO,
Two handsome Bookcases and Books, amongst which will
be found the following excellent works :
Penny Cyclopaedia, 24 vols.
l)r. Adam Clark’s Commentaries on the Scriptures, S vols.
Christian Biography, 16 vols.
Rollins’ Ancient History, 6 vols.
History of the Church of Christ, 5 vols.
Howe’s Works, complete, (L. M. 5.,) 1 vol.
Mackniglit on the Epistles, (L. M. 8.)
Preacher’s Manual (L. M. S.)
Bishop Newton on the Prophecies (L. M. §,)
Camlet’s Dictionary
Ewart on the Psalms, 3 vols.
Lightfoot’s Works
Milton’s Works
Cruden’s Concordance
Tomlin’s Geography
History of England, 2 vols.
Natural History, &c., &c., See,
I. M. ILLIDGE, Agent, &c.,
George-street, opposite the Market.
N.B.—Goods of all descriptions received for private sale.
November 14.
SCAZ.ES and weights.
THE undersigned has been appointed by Mr. Thomas
Woolley to adjust Weights and Measures by the stamped
set, sent complete from England by him. Merchants and
others may therefore depend on the correctness of all work
done. Reference is made to Mr. Woolley.
F. R. ROBINSON,
Tin Plate Worker.
Opposite the Royal Hotel,
George-street, November 14.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
TECG'S COIVTTVI'SOCIAL SHEET ALMANAC,
FOR 1845,
CONTAINING the usual amount of information calculated
for the counting house and private families,
PRICE ONE SHILLING.
W. A. COLMAN,
Bookseller and Stationer,
480, George-street, opposite the Military Barracks.
HAMILTON AND SHIEL,
TAILORS,
No. 12, COLONNADE, BRIDGE STREET,
X) ESPECTFULLY solicit an inspection of their Goods and
XV prices from those who are desirous of having a good article
at a diminished charge : they being both Tailors who have had
much successful experience in London, therefore can fit correctly ;
they being both operatives, therefore will be satisfied with a small
profit; they being both attentive, therefore may be depended
upon ; with these characteristics, the truth of which they are
anxious to manifest, they earnestly urge a trial, and submit a
sample of prices for cash only.
£ s. d.
Very best superfine black dress coat complete 3 3 0
Coat, vest and trousers, colonial tweed 2 10 0
White drill trousers, from Bs. to 17 0
A FIRST FLOOR TO LET at a very moderate rent.
ULTHXVAI.ZgEI> A IV D SPLEN3ID TRAVELLING,
PARRAMATTA AND SYDNEY.
AGE,
FOUR-HORSE COACH.
AT the particular wish and suggestion of numerous friends
and the public, the proprietor intends running the
AGE
Coach to Parramatta every morning , at 9 o’clock, leaving Par-
ramatta every afternoon at half-past 4 o’clock precisely.
Fares. —lnside, 25.; outside, Is. 6d.; on Sundays, 2s. each
From the under-mentioned Booking Offices every morning
SYDNEY,
. At half-past 8 o’clock,
Davies’s Australian Hotel, Lower George-street.
• At 9 o’clock precisely,
Sparke’s Royal Hotel, George-street.
Coles’s St. Patrick Inn, Brickfield-hill.
PARRAMATTA,
Every afternoon at half-past 4 o’clock.
Nash’s Woolpack Inn,
Smith’s White Horse Cellar, and
Livingston’s Glasgow Arms.
Performed by
LEWIS ALEXANDER,
City Repository, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Colonial literary Journal.
Collector for Sydney Mr. Francis Wye.
Our Subscribers are requested to observe that the Quarterly Sub-
scription to the Journal is made payable in advance. The
present heavy expenses require this. Those therefore who have
omitted to pay their last quarter's subscription , together with the
present one in advance, are requested to forward the same to the
nearest Agent at their earliest convenience.
Agents for this Journal.
Sydney , Mr. W. Jones, Circulating Library, Brickfield-hill
Parramatta Mr. Hugh Taylor
Windsor Mr. Walker.
Bathurst Mr. Tress.
West Maitland . Mr. Galloway. 1
Camden, Campbelltoivn, Penrith, and
Liverpool Mr. C. Lester.
Gunning Mr. Hawthorne.
