

COLONIAL LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
“ NON TUA TE MOVEANT, SED PUBLICA VOTA.”
Vol. 11. No. 29.]
SYDNEY, THURSDAY, JANUARY 9, 1845.
[Price 4d.
THE WHEEL OF TIME:
REDEMPTION OF THE PAST, DUE GUIDANCE OP THE
PRESENT, AND ANTICIPATION OF THE FUTURE.
Such a course we now proceed to point out as the
most necessary, as well as the most salutary lesson to
be learnt from the lapse of years.
Let us conjecture,—if those tombs which lie beneath
our feet were at this moment to open, and disclose to
view the numerous dead of former ages, as well as
those of later times, whose remains they now contain ;
na y> if those only who have been cut down by the
unerring hand of death during the year which has
just closed upon us ; if these, our fellow-citizens and
neighbours, or relatives, whose loss we deplore ; if
these, bursting the barriers which death has interposed
between them and ourselves, were now to present
themselves before us, and for a single moment were
permitted once more to accost us in the language of
affection and friendship,—let us conjecture, we repeat,
what would be the exhortation they would address to
anxious wish to which they would give
utterance the urgent entreaty to which they would
implore us to listen ? Unquestionably it would be, in
language of the most startling import, to impress upon
us the value of time, as subservient to eternity—to
admonish us that as time is passing away amidst con-
tinual revolutions of seasons and of years, so we also
are passing away with it, and that consequently we
ought, without further delay, to appropriate it to those
purposes for which it was intrusted to us ; and, with
the utmost care, to economise every one of those
precious moments which will shortly be no longer at
our disposal.
Time is the succession of moments which composes
the duration of a living and intelligent being in this
world. If there were nothing in existence, in strict
propriety of speech there would be no such thing as
time. But, individually speaking, time is the parti-
cular term or duration of our natural life,—the period
which elapses between the moment of our birth, and
that of our death. On our use of this time depends
our eternal happiness or misery : therefore should we
improve it to the best advantage; buying up those
precious moments, which others seem to throw away,
and assiduously making a good use of the time present:
therefore should we also earnestly endeavour to re-
cover t le time past, which has passed away through
neglect, and strive in some degree to anticipate the
time to come by wise precautions and deliberate re-
*ai* be amiss to enter more seriously
into the details of this momentous subject. *
ihe legitimate use of time present is, to employ it
principally in acquiring a knowledge of those things
which belong to our present peace and everlasting
happiness; in obedience to the divine law ; and in the
use of all those means and opportunities of grace
afforded us for the securing of our eternal welfare.
This it is to improve time to the best advan-
tage, and to fill up every moment of it in the most
profitable manner. Yet, let it not be imagined that
every other employment of time is absolutely to be
condemned. It is not necessary, in order to employ-
time religiously, that the whole of it should be devoted
to the immediate duties of religion : this our condition
in the world will seldom admit. But we employ our
time well when we employ it in a manner suitable to
the circumstances and situations in which we are
actually placed. As those circumstances vary, our
occupations also will vary : and our duty is fulfilled
when we follow our necessary earthly employments
with a contented, grateful, and devout mind.
The remedy by which we may recover the lime past
—the time we have lost, consists in redoubling our
efforts, in order that we may perform, in a short space
of time, what we ought to have done in the time which
is already past. It is as if it had not come ; and we
may say that it is again come to us, if our sorrow for
what is already lost increase our earnest desire to im-
prove the portion which may yet be allotted to us.
A person, therefore, who has lived thirty or forty years,
and, in consequence of his past neglect of time, finds
himself ignorant of many things which he ought to
have known, can only redeem it by sedulously applying
himself to the means of instruction, and by devoting
the present time to the acquisition of knowledge, in
proportion to the length of time which has already
past. Thus, also, a person who happily awakes in
time to a sense and feeling of the leaden chain which
binds him a slave to his passions, can only redeem
time thus doubly lost, by resolutely shaking off his
dissolute habits, and returning to the paths of virtue
and peace with renewed fervour and diligence.
It is possible also, and proper, to forestall the time to
come. It is possible to encroach upon the whole
remaining term of our life, and even upon time which
belongs to posterity. Thus, every one who, in humble
dependence upon the divine blessing, proposes to
himself a wise and holy plan of living—who forms
good resolutions, and concerts measures for carrying
them into execution ; —such a one smooths the diffi-
culties of the future, and may be said to labour for
time future. So, also, he who perforins charitable or
pious deeds from a sense of gratitude to God for tem-
poral and spiritual mercies ; and who, by his liberality.


evinces his regard to his country, his love for religion
and for his poorer brethren ; —such a person antici-
pates or redeems the time which belongs to posterity.
Having attempted to shew how we may redeem
time present, time past, and time to come, we proceed
to consider the importance of this improvement of our
time, and the guilt incurred if we neglect to improve
it. But here, our space obliges us again to post-
pone our concluding remarks to our next publication.
Biography.
SIR ASTLEY COOPER.
Sir Astley Cooper, one of the most eminent surgeons
modern times, was born on the 23d of August 1768. His
father, Dr. Samuel Cooper, was incumbent of Yelverton, in
Norfolk, but afterwards obtained the living of Great Yarmouth.
His mother, a lady of literary tastes, was the authoress of
several novels, one of which, entitled “ Fanny Meadows,”
obtained great popularity amongst the novel-reading public of
its day. Astley was distinguished at an early period of life
above his brothers and sisters—of whom he had many —by a
lively, heedless, but generally amiable disposition. Far from
applying Jiimself to any branch of useful study, he preferred
the proficiency which practice gives in riding on horses, and
sometimes even cows ; he was also a skilful climber of trees,
and procurer of birds’ nests, and an ingenious contriver of
practical jokes, many of which are recorded by his nephew and
biographer. Instead of studying the structure of anatomy
of the limbs (of which he afterwards possessed so complete a
knowledge), he appears in early life to have confined himself
pretty generally to the use of them ; for of all his tutors, none
succeeded so well as his French dancing-master.
At the age of thirteen, young Astley is said by his biogra-
pher to have made choice of the surgical profession in conse-
quence of an incident which showed that he possessed at least
one requisite for it—presence of mind. Happening to call
one evening at his foster-mother’s cottage, he found her son,
the playfellow of his infancy, bleeding profusely from a ghastly
wound in the thigh, accidentally received in the reaping-field.
The femoral artery was completely separated, the poor people
knew not how to stop the flow of blood, life was ebbing fast;
when young Cooper, taking a silk handkerchief from his neck,
bound it so adroitly round the limb, that the bleeding abated,
so as to remove danger till the arrival of a regular practitioner,
who soon afterwards came. It is just possible that the praise
which this cleverness and promptitude brought him, and the
pleasure he must have felt in saving his humble friend, gave
his mind an early bias for surgery; but his choice of that
science as a profession might, with greater show of probability,
be attributed to the influence of his grandfather, who had been
an eminent practitioner in Norwich, but lived in retirement
with his father; and to his uncle, Mr. Wm. Cooper, the most
prosperous and remarkable member of the whole family, who
was a celebrated London surgeon, and lecturer in Guy’s
hospital. At all events, when, in 1784, the latter gentleman
on paying his usual visit to the parsonage, proposed that
Astley should be articled to him, the proposal was accepted by
the family, and young Cooper accompanied his uncle to town.
The connexion however did not, in the end, prove fortunate.
The volatile young gentleman, just escaped from the mono-
tony of a country village, found the gaieties of the metropolis
better suited to his tastes than confinement in the surgery and
dissecting- room : continual disagreements took place between
the uncle and nephew, and the connexion was finally put an
end to by one of the freaks in which the embryo surgeon so
much delighted.
The pupil’s articles were now transferred from Mr. William
Cooper to Mr. Cline, a celebrated anatomist. Under this
gentleman, Astley’s general conduct altered for the better; lie
devoted himself to the study of anatomy with so much zeal,
that he soon made rapid progress in the knowledge requisite
for his profession.
It was wisely stipulated in young Cooper’s articles with
Cline, that he should spend one winter in Edinburgh, which
he did in the year 1787. Here he passed his time well; for,
besides a diligent attendance on Dr. Cullen’s medical course,
Fyfe’s anatomical lectures, and Black’s chemistry, he enrolled
himself a member of the Speculative Society, a debating club,
then, and for many subsequent years, of considerable celebrity
and influence. He made the acquaintance of several eminent
men in science and literature ; and, amongst others, that of
Dr. Gregory, concerning whom he relates, in his notes, a
pleasing anecdote. “It was the custom for each professor to
receive at his own house the fees from the new pupils. One
day Dr. Gregory, thus engaged, had used all his blank tickets,
and was obliged to go into an adjoining apartment to procure
another for a student whom he left sitting in his consulting-
room. The accumulated money was lying on the table, and
from this sum, as he was re-entering the room, he saw the
young man sweep a portion, and deposit it in his pocket. Dr.
Gregory took his seat at the table, and, as if nothing had
occurred, filled up the ticket, and gave it to the delinquent.
He then accompanied him to the door, and when at the
threshold, with much emotion said to him, ‘ I saw what you
did just now; keep the money; I know what must be your
distress ; but for God’s sake never do it again, it can never
succeed.’ The pupil in vain offered him back the money; and
the doctor had the satisfaction of knowing that this moral
lesson produced the desired impression upon his mind.”
After a solitary tour in the Highlands, Astley Cooper re-
turned to Mr. Cline, and went through a constant course of
study at the best metropolitan schools. So rapid was his pro-
gress, that, in 1789, he was appointed demonstrator at St,
Thomas’s hospital. By this time his gay and volatile tempe-
rament appears to have been sobered down; and all the
energy and address he formerly expended upon practical
joking, he now applied to practical anatomy and surgery; and
with so much success, that in 1791 Mr. Cline got him appointed
joint-lecturer with himself in the above branches of medical
science. In short, his devotion to his art was unbounded; the
most important events of his life were made subservient to, or
arose from, his professional pursuits. He courted his future
wife whilst attending her father in a fit of the gout: on the
evening of his wedding day, he delivered his usual surgical
lecture : and for the wedding trip he selected Paris, where he
visited the hospitals daily, and compared the Parisian practice
of surgery with our own.
He had not returned to London many months, before he was
appointed to the professorship of the Royal College of Sur-
geons, and was already esteemed one of the most instructive
surgical teachers of the period. It would be naturally sur-
mised, that with all his celebrity as a lecturer, private practice
would have flowed in upon him. But such was not the case,
as may be seen from a curious statement in his fee-book.
“ My receipt,” says he, “ for the first year was £5 55.; the
second, £26; the third, £64; the fourth £96; ;he fifth, £100;
the sixth, £200; the seventh, £400; the eighth, £610; the
ninth, £1100”—he himself appends a remark, which suffi-
ciently shows his feeling on the subject—“ although I was a
lecturer all the time on anatomy and surgery.” Thereafter
his income increased more rapidly, and he was soon able to
set up a carriage. This proved at first an unfortunate step,
for happening one day to be riding one of the carriage horses
in the city, he fell and received so severe a contusion on the
head, that his life was for some time despaired of.
His recovery, when it came, was, however, complete; and


his next great step was in 1800, the appointment as surgeon
to Guy’s hospital. The confidence his skill as a practical
surgeon had by this time inspired all who were brought in
connexion with him, whether as pupils or patients, is thus
described by Dr. Roots :—“ From the time of Astley’s appoint-
ment to Guy’s, until the moment of his latest breath, he was
everything and all to the suitering and afflicted. His name
was a host, but his presence brought confidence and comfort;
and I have often observed that, on an operating day, should
anything occur of an untoward character in the theatre, the
moment Astley Cooper entered, and the instrument was
in his hand, every difficulty was overcome, and safety generally
ensued.”
(To be continued.)
SUFFERING.
[For the Colonial Literary Journal.]
“ Teach me to feel another’s woe.”
Universal Prayer.
How little do the gay votaries of pleasure imagine the
great amount of sorrow which some around them pass
through. When we sleep soundly, and wake joy-
ously ourselves, we are too prone to forget the nights
of sleepless sorrow, and days of hopeless grief, which
compose the sad lifetime of some of our fellow-crea-
tures. There is many a heart fretted and torn by
grief, which never heaves a groan, or sheds a tear
before the world. Suffering and sorrowing beneath
an accumulated load of spirit torture, many a woe-
begone fellow being hides himself in the solitude of
retirement, down unvisited alleys, foodless, friendless,
and hopeless, in a comfortless dwelling, and, overcome
by the sickness of the soul, sinks down on his straw,
and mutters wild curses in his anguish, or pours his
prayer of agony to Heaven,—prayers and curses un-
heard and unthought of by the giddy crowd. Deprived
of all which is calculated to render earth agreeable,
tied down by galling poverty, bruised and blistered
by vile oppression, withered and blasted by foul dis-
ease, with that prostitution of the spirit, and drivelling
idiocy of the mind, which are brought about by hope
never fulfilled, expectation never realised, and suffer-
ing human nature never assisted.
We do not deny that many of the sorrows of man-
kind are brought on by themselves ; the bed of thorns
on which some lie down, has been planted by their
own hands ; and the cup of untold bitterness which
some drink, is a cup which they themselves mixed ;
but even these considerations should not altogether
remove them beyond our sympathy. Even could they
foresee the sorrows which their deeds would entail on
them and theirs, and yet had not the self-command and
firmness of purpose to withhold their hand from actions
the unavoidable consequences of which would be a»ony
dire and eternal: still, much as they may deserve our
censure and their own fate, they are not altogether
without claims to our compassion ; or, if it should be
said they are without claims , yet it is a noble triumph
ot god-like benevolence to pity and assist them. Have
we ourselves always had decision of character to with-
stand temptation, or firmness of purpose enough to
avoid the allurements to error which are so loud and
frequent in their calls ? When we heard the voice of
he channer, and saw the insinuating smile of vice
have we always had the resolution necessary to turn
away ? Few can say so. Then why should we refuse
K", sympathy to our erring fellow-creatures?
But besides the vast suffering which is brought on men
y lemselves, there are multitudes who have tasted
little of the joys of earth, and much of its sorrows,
who have not themselves to blame. It is not only on
the vicious and improvident that woe comes down,
but the best, the wisest, and the bravest of our race,
have been among its greatest martyrs. Yes ! even our
very virtues, our brightest and most praiseworthy
deeds, may sometimes have laid the foundation ot
future misfortune and pain. And then Heaven itself,
in the arrangements of the world, sometimes sends
calamity and affliction. Our Creator knows what
advantages are derived from suffering and sorrow, and
if we view them in a proper light,
We should look on them as warnings,
Sent less in wrath than love,
To call the being homeward
To his other home above.
But, let sorrow come from what source it may, through
our own follies, or our infirmities, either through the
perfidy of men, or the appointment of our Creator;
let it come too under what guise it may, with the
wrath and tumult of the whirlwind, or the slow and
secret workings of the canker worm, —yes, come when
and how it may, it is a severe and fearful monitor;
and oh, how noble to stretch out to its victims the
hand of kindness and assistance. If there is in the
toils and turmoils of this world a soul-soothing em-
ployment,—if there is in the wild desert of earth a
lovely sight,—if there is a principle which can give
mortality a resemblance to Deity, or send a rapturous
thrill through the soul of man, it is the exercise of
benevolence,
“ Tt droppeth like the gentle rain from Heaven,
Upon the place beneath, —it is twice bless’d,—
It blesseth him that gives, and him that takes
and so many are the monuments of sorrow around us,
that we need not look far for objects of sympathy. It
is true the cloudless sky may be tranquil, the blue
canopy above without a shade, around our path may
be the greenery of nature in her loveliest form, while
“ Strange bright birds on their starry wings
Bear the rich hues of all glorious things,”
and while gazing on all that is around, fair and cloudy,
and all that is above, bright and joyous, we may for a
moment forget that any one can feel less happy than
we do; but only turn the eye from these scenes of
beauty back to the stern realities of the world : whose
is that form that comes tottering and trembling on,
led by a faithful dog ? the sky on which we gaze mav
be bright, but he sees it not; the scene on which we
dwell with delight may be tranquil, but he cannot
behold it; the prospect which enchants our gaze may
be beauteous, but he cannot admire it; perhaps friend-
less, houseless, and way-worn, he is presenting by
actions the petition we oft so carelessly utter in words,
“give us this day our daily bread?’ Ah, surely,
when he turns his sightless, but teary eye on you, as
he passes, if your heart retains a vestige of holy feeling,
there is a chord struck which whispers
“ Pity the sorrows of a poor blind man.”
He passes on, accompanied, we would hope, with at
least your sympathies ; but think you, is he an extra-
ordinary sufferer ? do you imagine you have seen one
of earth’s most afflicted sons ? Oh, no ! he is blind,
’tis true, but he can walk about and inhale the fresh’
free breath of summer; but there are those who are
tossing to and fro on beds of torture, tormented by
the “ the sleepless dreams which mock,” and the rage
of appetite unsatisfied, and the vile, pent-up atmos-
phere of a dingy den, and the shut-out shining of


heaven’s gladdening daylight, and the still deeper
darkness of ignorance and hopeless wretchedness, with
no friend to look to but death, —no ray to illume but
the lightning of God’s anger,—no breath of air to fan
the burning brain but the scalding vapour of “ the
lake which burnethand then add to these the
aching limb, and the reproving conscience, and the
suffocating pang, and the tasteless, speechless torture
of unalleviated anguish; think of all these evils con-
summated in one victim. Yes ! cull flowers the most
poisonous, gather vapours the most noxious, extract
essences the most deadly, and collect extracts the
most bitter, and having mixed them together, invent
a barb of the direst torture, and dip it in this con-
centrated venom, and give it to the blackest and most
hateful of the sons of perdition, and watch him bury
it in the bosom of a fellow mortal ; and while writhing,
and twisting, and howling under the agonizing torture,
take his portrait, and write under it,
“ The thousand ills which flesh is heir to,”
and write above it,
“ Man is of few days and full of trouble,"
and if, after gazing on the picture, you can turn away
and indulge in unkind words, or taunting raillery, or
scoffing looks, if you can still turn from the voice of
woe unmov’d, or sneer at the victim of oppression
and cruelty, Oh! if still you have not learnt to be
kind hearted and compassionate, you need not wonder
if the next dart Heaven permits the foe of our race to
hurl, should rankle in your own unfeeling bosom, and
then “ a great ransom shall not deliver thee."
FREDERICK.
History.
ANCIENT HISTORY: SECTION XXV.
ROME UNDER THE CONSULS.
1. The regal government being abolished, it was agreed to
commit the supreme authority to two magistrates, who should
be annually elected by the people from the Patrician order.
To these they gave the name of Consules; * a modest title,’
says Vertot, * which gave to understand that they were rather
the counsellors of the republic than its sovereigns; and that
the only point they ought to have in view was its preservation
and glory.’ But, in fact, their authority differed scarcely in
any thing from that of the kings. They had the supreme ad-
ministration of justice, the disposal of the public money, the
power of convoking the senate, and assembling the people,
raising armies, naming all the officers, and the right of mak-
ing peace, war, and alliances. The only difference was, that
their authority was limited to a year. They wore the purple
robe, they had the sella curulis, or ivory chair of state, and
each of them was attended by twelve lictors, armed with the
fasces , the symbols of their power of life and death.
2. The first consuls were Brutus and Collatinus, the hus-
band of Lucretia. Tarquin was at this time in Etruria, where
he prevailed upon two cf the most powerful cities, Veii and
Tarquinii, to espouse his cause. He had likewise his parti-
sans at Rome ; and a plot was formed to open the gates to re-
ceive him. It was detected ; and Brutus had the mortifica-
tion to find his two Sons, and the nephew of Collatinus, in the
number of the conspirators. Brutus himself sat in judgment
upon his sons, and condemned them to be beheaded in his pre-
sence ; ‘ Exuit patrem ut consulem ageret; orbusque vivere,
quam publicse vindictm deesse maluit.’* Such is the reflection
of Valerius Maximus, but that of Livy is more natural:
* Quum inter omne tempus pater, vultusque etos ejus specta-
culo esset, eminente animo patrio, inter public® poenee minis-
terium.’f Collatinus bad not strength to imitate this example,
and in his endeavour to avert the punishment of his nephew,
procured his own deposition and banishment.
3. Tarquin now determined on war; and at the head Of
the armies of Veii and Tarquinii, he marched against the
Roman 3. He was opposed by the consuls Brutus and Public
Valerius, who had been chosen in the room of Collatinus, and
in the battle which ensued Brutus was killed. The contest was
doubtful; but the Romans claimed the victory, and Valerius
was the first Roman who enjoyed the splendid reward of a
triumph; a higher honour was paid to the memory of Brutus,
for whom the whole city went into mourning for ten months.
Arrogant from his recent honours, the popularity of Valerius
began to decline; when, with the view of recovering it, he
proposed the law, termed from him the Valerian, which per-
mitted any citizen who had been condemned to death by ama -
gistrate, or even to banishment or scourging, to appeal to the
people, and required their consent previously to the execution
of the sentence. This law gave the first blow to the aristo-
cracy, in the constitution of the Roman republic, a.u.c. 244.
—b.c. 509.
4. For thirteen years after the expulsion of Tarquin, the
Romans were involved in continual wars on his account. Of
these the most remarkable was that with the Etrurians under
Porsena; a war fertile in exploits of romantic heroism.
5. Soon after this period began those domestic disorders,which
continued long to embroil the republic. Great complaints had
arisen among the poorer classes of the citizens, both on account
of the inequality of property from the partial distribution of the
conquered lands which the higher ranks generally contrived to
engross to themselves, and from the harsh policy by which it
was in the power of creditors to reduce to a state of slavery
their insolvent debtors. As there was no law which limited
the rate of interest on borrowed money, the poor, when once
reduced to the necessity of contracting even trifling debts,
were left entirely at the mercy of their creditors, These griev-
ances, felt in common by a large proportion of the citizens,
excited much discontent, which, from complaints long disre-
garded, grew at length into a spirit of determined resistance.
The wars required new levies, and the senate ordered the ple-
beians to arm in defence of the common liberties ; but the
plebeians positively refused to enrol their names, declaring that
they knew no liberties to defend, unless the senate put an end
to their oppression, by decreeing at once an abolition of all the
debts due by the poor to the rich. The emergency was criti-
cal, as the enemy was at the gates of Rome. The consuls
found their authority of no avail; for the Valerian law had
given any citizen condemned by them a right to appeal to the
people. To evade the force of this law an extraordinary
measure was necessary, and a Dictator was created for the first
time ; a magistrate who, for the period of six months, was in-
vested with absolute and unlimited authority. The senate
appointed one of the consuls, Clelius, to choose the dictator,
which was afterwards the form, and he named his colleague,
Titus Lartius Flavius. Lartius, nominated to this high office,
armed the twenty-four lictors with axes, summoned the whole
| people to the Comitia, and calling over the names, under the
penalty of death to any citizen who should dare to murmur,
enrolled all such as he judged most fit for the service of their
country. He was successful against the enemy, and returning
to Rome, abdicated his authority. This expedient became
' henceforward a frequent and certain resource in all seasons of
* ‘He sacrificed the feelings of a father to the obligations
of chief magistrate, and preferred a childless old age to any
failure of his duty to the state.’
f ‘ While all the time his looks betrayed the. feelings of a
father, the pure patriotism of his soul prevailed in the admin-
istration of justice.'


public danger. In the following year Aulus Posthumus was
«hosen dictator, who gained an important victory, in which
the two sons of Tarquin, Sextus and Titus, tvere slain. This
put an end to all his prospects. He retired to Cumae, in Cam-
pania, where he died at the age of ninety. a.U.c. 257.
6. The death of Tarquin removed one check against the
tyranny of the higher over the lower orders; for the latter
liad hitherto kept alive a salutary apprehension, that, in case
of extreme oppression, they would be under the necessity of
calling back their king. When this fear was at an end, the
domineering spirit of the patricians, exceeding every bound
both of good policy and humanity, drove the people at length to
deeds of mutiny and rebellion. An alarm from the enemy
gave full weight to their power, and made the chief magistrates
of the state solemnly engage their honour to procure a redress
of their grievances, as soon as the public danger was at an end.
The promise, either from a failure of will or of power, was not
fulfilled, and this violation of faith drove the people at length
to extremities. Bound by their military oath not to desert
their standards, they carried them along with them ; and the
whole army in military array, under Sicinius Bellutus, with-
drew from Rome, and deliberately encamped on the Mons
Sacer, at three miles distance from the city ; and here they
were soon joined by the greatest part of the people. This re-
solute proceeding had its desired effect. The senate deputed
ten persons, the most respectable of their order; with plenary
powers ; and these, seeing no medium of compromise, granted
to the people all their demands. The debts were solemnly
abolished; and for the security of their privileges in future,
they were allowed the right of choosing magistrates of their
own order, who should have the power of opposing with effect
every measure which they should judge prejudicial to their
interests. These were the Tribunes of the people (so called
from having been first selected from among the tribuni militum
of the different legions), chosen annually ; at first five in
number, and afterwards increased to ten. Without guards or
tribunal, and having no seat in the senate house, they had yet
the power, by a single veto, to suspend or annul the decrees
of the senate and the sentences of the consuls. Their persons
were declared sacred, but their authority was confined to the
bounds of the city, and a mile beyond the walls. The tribunes
demanded and obtained two magistrates to assist them in their
office; these were termed AEdiles, from the charge committed
to them of the buildings of the city ; and afterwards they had
likewise the care of the games, spectacles, and other matters
of police, within the city.
7. From this era (260 years from the foundation of Rome,
and seventeen years after the abolition of the regal govern-
ment), we date the commencement of the popular constitution
of the Roman republic; a change operated by the unwise po-
licy of the patricians themselves, who, by yielding to just
complaints, and humanely redressing flagrant, abuses, might
have easily anticipated every ground of dissatisfaction. The
first vv h of the people was not power, but relief from tyranny
and oppression ; and had this been readily granted them, if
not by readily abolishing the debts, at least by repressing
enormous usury, and putting an end to the inhuman right of
corporal punishment and the bondage of debtors, the people
would have cheerfully returned to order and submission, and
the Roman constitution have long remained what we have
seen it was at the commencement of the consular govern-
ment, aristocratical. But a torrent imprudently resisted will,
in time, acquire that impetuous force which carries everything
before it. The plebeians having now obtained magistrates of
their own order with those high powers, we shall see it become
tbs main object with these magistrates to increase their
authority by continual demands and bold encroachments. The
p«ople regarding them as the champions cf their rights, and
delighted |to find themselves gradually approaching to an
equality with the higher order j and, no longer bounding
their desires to ease and security, are soon equally influenced
by ambition as their superiors. While this people, born*
down by injustice and oppression, seek no more than the re-
dress of real grievances, and a share of ease and happiness as
the members of a free state, we applaud their spirited exer-
tions, and execrate that arbitrary and inhuman principle which
prompted the higher order to treat them as slaves or inferior
j beings. But when we behold this people compassing at length
; the end they wished for —attaining ease and security, nay
power, which at first they had neither sought nor expected ;
when we see them, after this, increasing in their demands,
assuming that arrogance they justly blamed in their superiors,
goaded on by the ambition of their leaders to aim at tyran-
! nizing in their turn ; we view with proper discrimination tha
jlove of liberty and its extreme, licentiousness : and treat with
!just detestation the authors of those pernicious measures
which embroiled the state in endless faction, and paved the
way for the total loss of that liberty, of which this deluded
people knew not the value when they actually possessed it.
GAININGAIT AND AJUT.
BY SAMUEL JOHNSON.
Of the happiness and misery of our present state,
part arises from our sensations, and part from our
opinions ; part is distributed by nature, and part is in
a great measure apportioned by ourselves. Positive
pleasure we cannot always obtain, and positive pain
we often cannot remove. No man can give to his
own plantations the fragrance of the Indian groves ;
nor will any precepts of philosophy enable him to
withdraw his attention from wounds or diseases. But
the negative infelicity which proceeds, not from the
pressure of sufferings, but the absence of enjoyments,
will always yield to the remedies of reason.
One of the great arts of escaping superfluous un-
easiness, is to free our minds from the habit of com-
paring our condition with that of others on whom the
blessings of life are more bountifully bestowed, or
with imaginary states of delight and security, perhaps
unattainable by mortals. Few are placed in a
situation so gloomy and distressful, as not to see every
day beings yet more forlorn and miserable, from whom
they may learn to rejoice in their own lot.
No inconvenience is less superable by art or dili-
gence than the inclemency of climates, and therefore
none affords more proper exercise for thisphilosophical
abstraction. A native of England, pinched with tha
frosts of December, may lessen his affection for his own
country, by suffering his imagination to wander in
the vales of Asia, and sport among woods that are
always green, and streams that always murmur ; but
if he turns his thoughts towards the polar regions, and
considers the nations to whom a great portion of the
year is darkness, and who are condemned to pass
weeks and months amidst mountains of snow, he will
soon discover his tranquillity, and while he stirs his
fire, or throws his cloak about him, leflect how much
he owes to Providence, thathe is not placed in Green-
land or Siberia.
The barrenness of the earth, and the severity of the
skies in these dreary countries, are such as might be
expected to confine the mind wholly to the contem-
plation of necessity and distress, so that the care of
escaping death from cold and hunger should leave no
room for those passions which, in lands of plenty,
influence conduct, or diversify characters; the summer


should be spent only in providing for the winter, and
the winter in longing for the summer.
Yet learned curiosity is known to have found its
way into these abodes of poverty and gloom : Lapland
and Iceland have their historians, their critics, and
their poets ; and love, that extends his dominion
wherever humanity can be found, perhaps exerts the
same power in the Greenlander’s hut as in the palace
of eastern monarchs.
In one of the large caves to which the families of
Greenland retire together, to pass the cold months,
and which may be termed their villages or cities, a
youth and maid, who came from different parts of the
country, were so much distinguished for their beauty,
that they were called by the rest of the inhabitants
Anningait and Ajut, from a supposed resemblance to
their ancestors of the same names, who had been
transformed of old into the sun and moon.
Anningait for some time heard the praises of Ajut
with little emotion; but at last, by frequent inter-
views, became sensible of her charms, and first made
a discovery of his affection, by inviting her with her
parents to a feast, when he placed before Ajut the
tail of a whale. Ajut seemed not much delighted by
this gallantry, yet, however, from that time, was
observed rarely to appear, but in a vest made of the
skin of a white deer; she used frequently to renew
the black dye upon her hands and forehead, to adorn
her sleeves with coral and shells, and to braid her air
with great exactness.
The elegance of her dress, and the judicious dis-
position of her ornaments, had such an effect upon
Anningait, that he could no longer be restrained from
a declaration of his love. He therefore composed a
poem in her praise, in which, among other heroic and
tender sentiments, he protested, that “ She was beauti-
ful as the vernal willow, and fragrant as thyme upon
the mountains: that her fingers were white as the
teeth of the morse, and her smile grateful as the dis-
solution of the ice ; that he would pursue her, though
she should pass the snows of the midland cliffs, or
seek shelter in the caves of the eastern cannibals ;
that he would tear her from the embraces of the
genius of the rocks, snatch her from the paws of
Amaroc, and rescue her from the ravine of Hafgufa.”
He concluded with a wish, that “ whoever shall at-
tempt to hinder his union with Ajut, might be buried
without his bow, and that in the land of souls his
skull might serve for no other use than to catch the
droppings of the starry lamps.”
This- ode being universally applauded, it was ex-
pected that Ajut would soon yield to such fervour
and accomplishments: but Ajut, with the natural
haughtiness of beauty, expected all the forms of court-
ship ; and before she would confess herself conquered,
the sun returned, the ice broke, and the season of
labour called all to their employment.
Anningait and Ajut for a time always went out in
the same boat, and divided whatever was caught.
Anningait, in the sight of his mistress, lost no op-
portunity of signalizing his courage : he attacked the
sea-horses on the ice; pursued the seals into the
water ; and leaped upon the back of the whale, while
he was yet struggling with the remains of life. Nor
was his diligence less to accumulate all that could
be necessary to make winter comfortable ; he dried
the roe of fishes, and the flesh of seals; he entrapped
deer and foxes, and dressed their skins to adorn his
bride-; he feasted her with eggs from the rocks, and
strewed her tent with flowers.
It happened that a tempest drove the fish to a
distant part of the coast, before Anningait had com-
pleted his store ;he therefore entreated Ajut, that she
would at last grant him her hand, and accompany
him to that part of the country whither he was now
summoned by necessity. Ajut thought him not yet
entitled to such condescension, but proposed, as atrial
of his constancy, that he should return at the end of
the summer to the cavern where their acquaintance
commenced, and there expect the reward of his assi-
duities. u 0 virgin, beautiful as the sun shining on
the waters, consider,” said Anningait, what thou hast
required! How easily may my return be precluded
by a sudden frost or unexpected fogs; then must the
night be passed without my Ajut. We live not, my
fair, in those fabled countries which lying strangers
so wantonly describe ; where the whole year is divided
into short days and nights •, where the same habitation
serves for summer and winter; where they raise houses
in row’s above the ground ; dwell together from year
to year, with flocks of tame animals grazing in the
fields about them ; can travel at any time from one
place to another, through ways enclosed with trees,
or over walls raised upon the inland waters 5 and
direct their course through wide countries by the sight
of green hills or scattered buildings. Even in sum-
mer we have no means of crossing the mountains,
w’hose snows are never dissolved ; nor can remove to
any distant residence, but in our boats coasting the
bays. Consider, Ajut ; a few summer days and a
few winter nights, and the life of man is at an end.
Night is the time of ease and festivity, of revels and
gaiety •, but w’hat will be the flaming lamp, the
delicious seal, or the soft oil, without the smile of
Ajut'?”
The eloquence of Anningait W’as vain ; the maid
continued inexorable, and they parted with ardent
promises to meet again before the night of winter.
Anningait, how’ever discomposed by the dilatory
coyness of Ajut, was yet resolved to omit no tokens
of amorous.respect; and therefore presented her, at
his departure, with the skins of seven white fawns, of
five swans, and eleven seals, with three marble lamps,
ten vessels of seal oil, and a large kettle of brass,
w’hich he had purchased from a ship, at the price 01
half a w’hale, and two horns of sea-unicorns.
Ajut w r as so much affected by the fondness of her
lover, or so much overpowered by his magnificence,
that she followed him to the sea-side; and, when she
saw him enter the boat, wished aloud, that he might
return w’ith plenty of skins and oil; that neither the
mermaids might snatch him into the deeps, nor the
spirits of the rocks confine him in their caverns.
She stood awhile to gaze upon the departing vessel,
and then returning to her hut, silent and dejected, laid
aside, from that hour, her white deerskin, suffered
her hair to spread unbraided on her shoulders, and
forbore to mix in the dances of the maidens. She
endeavoured to divert her thoughts by continual ap-
plication to feminine employment, gather moss for
the winter lamps, and dried grass to line the boots of
Anningait. Of the skins which he had bestowed
upon her, she made a fishing-coat, a small boat, an
tent, all of exquisite manufacture ; and while she was
thus busied, solaced her labours with a song, in which
she prayed, “ that her lover might have hands stronger
than the paws of the bear, and feet swifter than tie
feet of the rein-deer ; that his dart might never err,
and that his boat might never leak-; that he might
never stumble on the ice, nor faint in the water; tha


the seal might rush on his harpoon, and the wounded
whale might dash the waves in vain.'’
The large boats in which the Greenlanders trans-
port their families, are always rowed by women, for
a man will not debase himself by work, which requires
neither skill nor courage. Anningait was therefore
exposed by idleness to the ravages of passion. He
went thrice to the stern of the boat, with an intent to
leap into the w r ater, and swim back to his mistress:
but recollecting the misery which they must endure
in the winter, without oil for the lamp, or skins for
the bed, he resolved to employ the weeks of absence
in provision for a night of plenty and felicity. He
then composed his emotions as he could, and expressed
in wild numbers and uncouth images, his hopes, his
sorrows, and his fears. “ 0 life,” says he, “ frail and
uncertain! where shall wretched man find thy resem-
blance but in ice floating on the ocean ? It towers
on high, it sparkles from afar, while the storms drive
and the waters beat it, the sun melts it above, and the
rocks shatter it below. What art thou, deceitful
pleasure, but a sudden blaze streaming from the north,
which plays a moment on the eye, mocks the traveller
with the hopes of light, and then vanishes for ever ?
What, love, art thou but a whirlpool, which we ap-
proach without knowledge of our danger, drawn on
by imperceptible degrees, till we have lost all power
of resistance and escape? Till I fixed my eyes on
the graces of Ajut, while I had yet not called her to
the banquet, I was careless as the sleeping morse —I
was merry as the singers in the stars. Why, Ajut,
did I gaze upon thy graces ? Why, my fair, did I
call thee to the banquet'? Yet, be faithful, my love
—remember Anningait, and meet my return with
the smile of virginity. I will chase the deer—l will
subdue the whale, resistless as the frost of darkness,
and unwearied as the summer sun. In a few weeks
I shall return prosperous and wealthy ; then shall
the roefish and the porpoise feast thy kindred ; the fox
and hare shall cover thy couch ; the tough hide of the
seal shall shelter thee from cold ; and the fat of the
whale illuminate thy dwelling.”
Anningait having with these sentiments consoled
his grief, and animated his industry, found that they
had now coasted the headland, and saw the whales
spouting at a distance. He therefore placed himself
in his fishing-boat, called his associates to their se-
veral employments, plied his oar and harpoon with
incredible courage and dexterity ; and, by dividing
his time between the chase and fishery, suspended
the miseries of absence and suspicion.
Ajut, in the mean time, notwithstanding her
neglected dress; happened, as she was drying some
skins in the sun, to catch the eye of Norngsuk on his
return from hunting. Norngsuk was of birth truly
illustrious. His mother had died in childbirth ; and
his fatner, the most expert fisher of Greenland, had
perished by too close pursuit of the whale. His
dignity was equalled by his riches ; he was master of
four mens and two womens’ boats, had ninety tubs of
oil in his winter habitation, and five-and-twenty seals
buried in the snow against the season of darkness.
When he saw the beauty of Ajut, he immediately
threw over her the skin of a deer that he had taken,,
and soon after presented her with a branch of coral.
.Ajut refused his gifts, and determined to admit no
lover in the placa of Anningait.
Norngsuk, thus rejected, had recourse to stratagem.
He knew that Ajut would consult an Angekkok, or
diviner, concerning the fate of her lover, and the feli-
city of her future life. He therefore applied himself
to the most celebrated Angekkok of that part of the
country, and by a present of two seals and a marble
kettle, obtained a promise, that when Ajut should
consult him, he would declare that her lover w r as in
the land of souls. Ajut, in a short time, brought
him a coat made by herself, and inquired what events
were to befal her, with assurances of a much larger
reward at the return of Anningait, if the prediction
should flatter her desires. The Angekkok knew the
way to riches, and foretold that Anningait, having
already caught two whales, would soon return home
with a large boat laden -with provisions.
This prognostication she was ordered to keep secret,
and Norngsuk depending upon his artifice, renewed
his addresses with greater confidence ; but, finding
his suit still unsuccessful, applied himself to her
parents with gifts and promises. The wealth of
Greenland is too powerful for the virtue of a Green-
lander ; they forgot the merit and the presents of
Anningait, and decreed Ajut to the embraces of
Norngsuk. She entreated ; she remonstrated; she
wept, and raved •, but finding riches irresistible, fled
away into the uplands, and lived in a cave upon such
berries as she could gather, and the birds or hares
w r hich she. had the fortune to ensnare, taking care at
an hour when she was not likely to be found, to view
the sea every day, that her lover might not miss her
at his return.
At last she saw the great boat in which Anningait
had departed, stealing slow and heavy-laden along
the coast. She ran with all the impatience of affec-
tion to catch her lover in her arms, and relate her
constancy and sufferings. When the company reached
the land, they informed her, that Anningait, after the
fishery was ended, being unable to support the slow
passage of the vessel of carriage, had set out before
them in his fishing-boat, and they expected, at their
arrival, to have found him on shore.
Ajut, distracted at this intelligence, w r as about to
fly into the hills, without knowing why, though she
was now in the hands of her parents, who forced her
back to their own hut, and endeavoured to comfort
her ; but when at last they retired to rest, Ajut went
down to the beach ; where, finding a fishing-boat, she
entered it without hesitation, and telling those who
wondered at her rashness, that she was going in search
of Anningait, rowed away with great swiftness, and
was seen no more.
The fate of these lovers gave occasion to various
fictions and conjectures. Some are of opinion, that
they were changed into stars ; others imagine that
Anningait was seized in his passage by the genius of
the rocks, and that Ajut was transformed into a mer-
maid, and still continues to seek her lover in the
deserts of the sea. But the general persuasion is,
that they are both in that part of the land of souls
where the sun never sets, where oil is always fresh,
and provisions always warm. The virgins sometimes
throw a thimble and a needle into the bay from which
the hapless maid departed ; and when a Greenlander
w r ould praise any couple for virtuous affection, he
declares that they love like Anningait and Ajut.
Classical Wit. —In the south of Ireland, where, as in
Hungary, there is a kind of vernacular Latin spoken, a school-
boy asked his reverend preceptor what was the translation of
the words “ sliding scale” into the Roman dialect; on.which
the worthy man promptly replied “ Focilis descensus AvernV—
avurneen l I mai„ie.


Varieties.
First Love. —Ah! that first affair, how well one remembers
it 1 What a noble discovery it is that the boy makes when he
finds himself actually and truly in love with some one ! What
a delicious, magnificent secret it is that he carries about with
him! My first love was like my first gold watch an elegant
French gold repeater. I used to go into corners, and con-
template and gloat over my treasure : to take it to bed with
me, and lay it under my pillow of nights, and wake of mornings
with the happy consciousness that it was there. What a
change does that blessed first love make in a lad ; You fall
in love, say, of a Sunday; a young woman at church modestly
hands you the psalm book, and blushes and droops down her
eyes, as she tremulously sings the Old Hundredth; by the
time the music is done, you have passed over into a new state
of existence, and your childhood lies far away from you. It
was only on Saturday that you had made a party for cricket,
and were longing for Monday to be a fine day. It was but
last Friday, Heaven bless us! that you and Harry Hunter had
been examining curiously a certain apple tree in Farmer
Smith’s orchard, and had settled, (after knocking down one of
the fruit with a stone, and trying each of you a slice of it,) that
the apples would be ripe in a fortnight, and the tree in a fit
state for robbing. Psha! is it possible that only three days
since you had an ambition for robbing orchards, and looked
forward to the pleasure of hiding a store of the stolen pippins
under your bed ? Is it possible that the setting up of three
yellow stumps unon a meadow, and the dexterous knocking
down of them, should have been the chief ambition of your
life ? There lies the cricket ball, which you greased carefully
over night. Before going to church even, you looked at it to
examine its condition, and I believe spent the best part of the
half-hour during sermon in the morning in cutting a pair of
bales for the wickets. Evening service is over. Fanny Edwards
and her mother have slowly strolled home to tea; and as you
by Smith’s apple tree, you blush to think that you could
ever have a longing for the silly green codlings shining among
the leaves, and put away your wicket-sticks in a rage. And
what is the cause of all this ? You and Fanny have been
holding on by one hymn-book.— Fraser’s Magazine.
Riddle. —The French delight to try the esprit of children
by a kind of riddles. For example : A man has a little boat,
in which he must carry, from one side of a river to the other, a
wolf, a goat, and a cabbage, and must not carry more than one
of these at once. Which shall he take first, without the risk
that, during one of his navigations, the wolf may devour the
goat, or the goat the cabbage ? Suppose he carry the wolf, the
cabbage is lost—if the cabbage, the goat is devoured—if the
goat, the embarrassment is equal; for he must risk his goat,
or his cabbage, on the other side of the river. The answer is.
He must take the goat over first, the wolf will not touch the
cabbage; in the second passage he carries the cabbage, and
brings back the goat; in the third he transports the wolf,
which may again be safely left with the cabbage. He conclu-
des with returning for the goat.
Hints to Make Home Happy.— To Wives, — Your first
consideration before marriage was, how to please your lover.
Consider any such endeavour, after marriage, to be unneces-
sary and ridiculous; and, by way of amends for your former
labour, let your sole object be, to please yourself. Be at no
pains to look well of a morning. A long toilet is tiresome;
particularly when it is cold. —“Taking the hair out” occupies
nearly ten minutes ; come down to breakfast, therefore, in
curl papers; also in a flannel dressing gown ; and, unless you
expect callers, remain in dishabille all day.—Husbands are
nobodies, and comfort is to be studied before appearance.
But are you to neglect your attire altogether ? By no means.
Indulge your taste in dress to the utmost. Be always buying
something new ; never mind the expense of it. Payments
belong to husbands. If you see a shawl or bonnet in a win-
dow, order it.—Should a silk or muslin attract your eye, desire
it to be sent home.—Does a feather, a ribbon, a jewel, strike
your fancy—purchase it instantly. If your husband is aston-
ished at the bill, pout; if he remonstrates, cry, But do not
spoil your finery by domestic wear.—Reserve it for promenades
and parties. It is the admiration of society that you should
seek for, not your husband’s. Be constantly seeing tables,
chairs, window curtains, and other furniture, which you like
better than your own; and insist upon their being got. —Want
to get rid of your old piano, and have a new one. If your
husband keeps a carriage for you, desire a better; if he does
not, and cannot afford it, complain. Whenever your desires
exceed his means, look unhappy, and hint how much more
advantageously you might have married. Never smile and
hope for better things, but make yonr husband feel, as keenly
as you can, the inadequacy of his means to support you,
Practice, however, a reasonable economy, Take every oppor-
tunity of making a cheap purchase; and when asked of what
use it is ? reply, that it is “ a bargain.” Enjoy ill health. Be
very nervous; and, in particular, subject to fits; which you are
to fly into as often as your husband is unkind, that is when-
ever he reasons with you. Make the most of every little ache
or pain ; and insist upon having a fashionable physician.
There is something very elegant in illness ; a prettiness in a
delicate constitution —affect this attraction if you have it not
—men admire it exceedingly. Put yourself under no restraint
in your husband’s presence. Sit, 1011, or lie, in just what way
you like, looking only to the ease of the posture, not to its
grace. Leave niceties of conversation and sentiment to the
single ; never mind how you express yourself; why should
wives be particular ? When your husband wishes to read or
be quiet, keep chattering to him; the more frivolous or
uninteresting the subject the better. If he is disposed for
conversation, be dull and silent; and whenever you see that
he is interested in what he is talking about, especially if h»
wishes you to attend to him, keep yawning.—There are two
ways of discharging your household duties. If you are lan-
guid and listless, you may let them alone; if notable, you
should be continually turning the house topsy turvy, under
pretence of turning it to rights. You can either let your ser-
vants do just as they please ; or you may be continually in the
kitchen, looking after them. In the latter case, scold them
frequently, and in an audible voice, so as to up stairs.
Never think of looking to your husband’s shirt buttons ; leave
that to the laundress; or, if you must attend to his linen,
superintend your washing in person, and have frequent water
parties; and, especially in winter, always have the clothes
dried before the parlour fire. If your husband has to go out
to a business dinner, or to the play, never let him have the
latch key, and should he, on any occasion, stay out late, send
the servant to bed, sit up for him yourself, and make a merit
of the sacrifice to “ the wretch.” Have a female confidant,
who will instruct you in all the ill qualities of husbands gene-
rally, and will supply any deficiencies in the above hints. In
conclusion, bear these grand principles in mind—that men
must be crossed and thwarted continually, or they are sure to
be tyrants ; that a woman, to have her rights, must stand up for
them ; and that the behaviour that won a man’s affections, i*
by no means necessary to preserve thercn— Punch.
“ I would rather have your room than your company,” as
the oyster said to the knife.
LAWS OF MOTION.
Newtonian System.
Read the first book of Pemberton’s ‘ Newton’. The laws of
motion on which Newton grounds all his conclusions (and the
spirit of which Pemberton has injured by periphrasis ), are
these: first, That all bodies persist in a state of rest, or of
moving uniformly onwards in a straight line, till compelled to
change this state by some force impressed upon them : secondly,
That the change of state thus produced is always proportional
to the moving force impressed, and takes place in the right
line in which that force is impressed : thirdly, That the re-
action of any body acted on by anothcr ? is always equal in force,
and opposite in direction, to the action of that other body
upon it. These laws established —and uniform observation
attests them to obtain wherever we have an opportunity of
making the experiment—by simply assuming an original
projectile and rotary motion impressed, and a power of gravita-
tion in all bodies, proportioned to their quantity of matter,
and diminishing (as all radiating power will of course diminish)
in the duplicate ratio of the distance to which it extends, lie
accounts for all the planetary movements, and all the influences
of these b idies on each other. That such a power of gravitation
retains the moon in its orbit, seems past all doubt, because it
is demonstrable that the same power of gravitation which
operates on the surface of the earth, extended to the moon, is
precisely what is requisite for effecting this purpose, and the
exact solution which this principle affords, not only of the
simple planetary motions, but of all their disturbances of each
other—disturbances, which on the supposition of such a power
must exist, which observation exactly verifies, and which the
assumption of such a power enables us to calculate with the
utmost nicety before-hand—can surely leave no doubt on the
most sceptical mind, that the same principle pervades and
sustains the whole of our system. Such is the solid and broad
basis of Newton’s distinguishing fame as an original discoverer
in science; and it may well sustain the loftiest column.-*—
Diary of a Lover of Literature .


The Moralist.
RELIGION.
There is but one God, the author, the creator, the governor
of the world, almighty, eternal, and incomprehensible.
The sun is not God, though his noblest image. He
enliveneth the world with his brightness, his warmth giveth
life to the products of the earth ; admire him as the creature,
the instrument of God ; but worship him not.
To the One who is supreme, most wise and beneficent, and
to him alone, belong worship, adoration, thanksgiving, and
praise!
Who hath stretched forth the heavens with his hand, who ,
hath described with his finger the courses of the stars.
W T ho setteth bounds to the ocean, that it cannot pass ; and
saith unto the stormy winds, Be still.
Who shaketh the earth, and the nations tremble ; who
darteth his lightnings, and the wicked are dismajed.
Who calleth forth worlds by the word of his mouth ; who
cmiteth with his arm, and they sink into nothing.
”0 reverence the Majesty of the Omnipotent; and tempt
not his anger, lest thou be destroyed !”
The providence of God is over all his works ; he ruleth and
directeth with infinite wisdom.
He hath instituted laws for the government of the world ;
he hath wonderfully varied them in his beings; and each by
his nature, conformeth to his will.
In the depths of his mind he revolveth all knowledge ; the
secrets of futurity lie open before him.
The thoughts of thy heart are naked to his view ; he know-
eth thy determinations before they are made.
With respect to his prescience, there is nothing contingent;
with respect to his providence, there is nothing accidental.
Wonderful he is in alibis ways; his counsels are inscrutable;
the manner of his knowledge transcendeth thy conception.
“ Pay, therefore, to his wisdom all honour and veneration ;
and bow down thyself in humble and submissive obedience
to his supreme direction.”
(To be continued.)
MORAL MAXIMS.
ALPHABETICALLY ARRANGED.
NO. 29.
Business whets the appetite, and gives akeen relish to pleasure.
Buy at market, but sell at home.
Buy what you do not want, and you will sell what you can-
not spare.
By aggravating an injury, some persons persuade themselves
they justify it.
By a timely resistance the greatest evils may be overcome.
By doing nothing we learn to do ill.
By entertaining good thoughts, you will keep out evil ones.
By forgetfulness of injuries, we show ourselves superior to
them.
By good nature half the miseries of human life might be
assuaged.
By ingratitude the strictest combinations of friendship are
broken.
By learning to obey, we know how to command.
By others’ faults wise men correct their own.
The Last Consideration. —A gentleman who lately built
a house was showing it to a friend, and with great glee was
pointing out all its various accommodations. “My dear sir,”
interrupted the other, “ have you made the staircase wide
enough to bring down your coffin ?” t
Choice of Frientg, —lf I were to choose the people with
whom I would spend my hours of conversation, they should be
certainly such as laboured no farther than to make themselves
readily and clearly apprehended, and would have patience and
curiosity to understand me. To have good sense, and ability
to express it, are the most essential and necessary qualities in
companions. When thoughts rise in us fit to utter among
familiar friends, there needs but little care in clothing them.
— Steele.
Ceremonies are in themselves very silly things; but yet
a man of the world should know them. They are the outworks
of manners and decency, which would be so often broken in
upon, if it were not for that defence which keeps the enemy at
a proper distance. It is for that reason that I always treat
fools and coxcombs with great ceremony ; true good-breeding
not being a sufficient barrier against them .—Chesterfield,
Select Poetry.
SACRED MUSINGS.
I hear upon the evening breeze
A voice which others cannot hear;
A guardian angel, hovering near,
My mind’s eye sees,
The sight which others cannot see,
The sounds which others cannot hear,
Are plain and palpable to me,
And ever near.
It tells of sublimated joys,
And guides unto a holier land,
Where dwells a happy sainted band,
Whom praise employ*,
Where all is blissful, bright, and fair,
No sound of woe is heard, or sigh,
And where the dwellers never die,
Death is not there.
Faith, hope and love grow bold and strong •
With heaven communing thus the soul
Appears to gain the wished-fo'r gaol,
And learn heaven’s song.
The voice of praise, the breath of prayer,
Make sacred both the hour and place,
And all around is light and gnace,
For God is there.
J. YOUNG.
LIFE.
I made a posy, while the days ran by :
Here will I smell my remnant out, and tie
My life within this band.
But time did beckon to the flowers, and they
By noon most cunningly did steal awav,
And withered in my hand.
My hand was next to them, and then my heart;
I took, without more thinking, in good part
Time’s gentle admonition ;
Who did so sweetly death’s sad taste convey,
Making my mind to smell my fatal day,
Yet sugaring the suspicion.
Farewell dear flowers ! sweetly your time ye spent,
Fit, while ye liv’d, for smell and ornament,
And after death for cures.
I follow straight, without complaints or grief,
Since if my scent be good, I care not if
It be as short as yours.
GEORGE HERBERT.
VANITY OF THE WORLD.
What well-advised ear regards
What earth can say ?
Thy words are gold, but thy rewards
Are painted clay:
Thy cunning can but pack the cards
Thou canst not play:
Thy game at weakest, still thou vy’st;
It seen, and then revy’d, deny’st:
Thou art not what thou seem’st; false world, thou ly’st.
Thy tinsel bosom seems a mint
Of new-coin’d treasure ;
A paradise, that has no stint,
No change, no measure ;
A painted cask, but nothing in’t,
Nor wealth, nor pleasure :
Vain earth I that falsely thus comply’st
With man; vain man ! that thou rely’st
On earth; vain man, thou dot’st; vain earth, thou ly’st.
What mean dull souls, in this high measure,
To haberdash
In earth’s base wares, whose greatest treasure
Is dross and trash ?
The height of whose enchanting pleasure
Is but a flash ?
Are these the goods that thou supply’st
Us mortals with ? Are these the high’st!
Can these bring eordial peace ? false world, thou ly’st.
FRANCIS QUARLES.


CATALLACTICS.
Flax. — Linum Usitatissimum.
[continued.]
Lest any of our readers should think that we bestow
too much attention on this one article, while there are
many others deserving of our regard, such as sugar,
cotton, castor oil, vines, oil-olives, sunflowers, silk,
&c., we desire them to understand that we consider
flax to be both more immediately remunerative, more
calculated to confer value on our arable lands, and
more befitting our character as a comfort-loving
church-going people. Our aim being to furnish true
and good information, we will not in this paper in-
dulge much in our own peculiar talk, but bring
together a lot of extracts, which the reader may (if
he will) liken to “ orient pearls at random strung;”
or, if he prefer an Occidental comparison, to a “ cargo
of lumber, flour, alewives, and other notions.”
Our learned coeval, Robin Goodfellow, ( Maitland
Mercury , 20th Dec.,) has, we are glad to see,
begun to devote his able pen to this subject. He
gives us a return of the flax and codilla imported into
the United Kingdom for 20 years. The quantities
for the 5 years ending 1841 we extract*.—
1837 1,022,256 cwts.
1838 1,625,315 „
1839 1,223,730 „
1840 1,256,051 „
1841 1,346,843 „
The average is about 65,000 tons annually.
We find that in our friend Giles’s letter, in the
Sydney Herald , 24th April, 1844, the British are
stated to have imported “ from Russia 54,478 tons of
flax, and from British India 200,000 bushels of
linseed.” The former he values at £4O per ton, and
the latter at 4s. per bushel. But we may observe
that by the quotations of 1843, the value of Russia
flax did not generally exceed £33 per ton, although
Irish and Dutch was probably more than £5O per ton,
and that the price of linseed is very fluctuating,
ow'ing to its being used as a substitute for different
articles : thus, when the cattle provender is scarce,
the seed is used in its expressed state as cake for
feeding, and when oils are scarce, it and the other
vegetable oils come into demand for lamps, machinery,
paints, &c. The total import is about three millions
of pounds seed.
Our friend Giles sayeth, (in his letter of 16th May
last, in the Herald,) “ flax will grow on any soil
suitable for wheat, but particularly affects a rich
friable soil with a subsoil retentive of moisture either
from its tenacity or from being level with a river’s
surface. I understand there are lands about the
[Hunter,] Paterson, Williams, [Hawkesbury and
ShoalhavenJ rivers admirably adapted for it. It
should be sown early to receive the benefit of the
winter rains, and if the ground is well moistened by
these in its early stages, it is sure to succeed, even if
the weather should afterwards be dry. Of course,
the more the ground is pulverised the better. About
one-and-a-half or two bushels of seed are required
to the acre. An acre of ground of the first quality
will produce from 5 to 10 cwt. of flax, worth in
England £lO to £2O, and from 10 to 20 bushels of
seed, value £2 to £4. But as we import all our
linseed oil, the seed would be equally valuable here,
[as in England,] and the cake also could be used for
feeding up.”
The plant is cultivated in India, we are informed,
solely on account of its seed. The quantity imported
by Britain from Belgium and Holland is about
20,000 tons—we speak from recollection—and the
quantity estimated to be grown in Ireland exceeds
(according to Hall’s Ireland) 25,000 tons—(also from
recollection) —the whole quantity required by Britain
and Ireland being about 100,000 tons.
The quantity of flax bagging required by this
colony for woolpacks, corn sacks, and coarse qualities
which might be manufactured by and bye within the
colony from the tow, or coarser portions of the fibre,
cannot be estimated at less than £40,000. The
quantity of sailcloth, osnaburgs, brown hollands,
pinafore stuff, and fine linens, must be very large,
but these are stuffs we could not economically make.
The following is a description of four different
sorts of the plant. We recommend Robin Good-
fellow to be on the outlook for them, if, as we believe,
his attainments are scientific and local opportunities
favourable.
1. Linum Usitatissimum. Habitat corn fields. Flower bine.
Annual. Leaflet of the calyx ovate, acute, three-nerved ;
petals crenate ; leaves lanceolate, alternate ; stem mostly
solitary.
2. Perenne. Hab. chalky soil. Blue flower. Leaflet of
the calyx obovate, obtuse, about five-nerved, smooth. Stems
numerous ascending.
S. Angustifolium. Narrow-leaved. Sandy pasture. Purple
flowers. Leaflet of calyx elliptical, about triple-nerved, acu-
minate as well as the capsules. Leaf linear-lanceolate three-
nerved. Stems numerous.
4. Catharticum. Purging. Dry pasture. White flower.
Leaflet obovate, lanceolate. Stem dichotomous above petals
acute.
We extract from Mr. Emerson Tennant’s Belgium
the following official instructions circulated by the
Societe Liniere of Brussels.
“ In the districts of Courtrai, S. Nicholas, and
Tournai, flax is cultivated in perfection, but nowhere
else is the cultivation -what could he washed. Thus
the culture of flax has increased without the art of
cultivation making any progress. The quality of the
flax, even the abundance of the crop, depends much
upon the selection of the seed. In general, the seed
which we import from the north succeeds, but the
merchants engaged in the business have, for a few
years past, taken advantage of the confidence reposed
in them by the farmers. What they sold as genuine
Riga seed w r as really a mixture. Thus, in several
districts where it was sown, the crop sprung up but
partially and imperfectly. The committee will take
measures to give the farmer more security in his
purchases, and adopt means to import direct genuine
Riga seed.
“ It has been observed, that when the seed is sown
early, as soon as the season permits germination, the
crop is always better both in quantity and quality.
Experience also teaches that good tillage and abun-
dance of manure have a great influence on the quality
of the crop. The spade should be used in preference
to the plough, as it pulverises the ground better. This
it is which makes it so difficult to cultivate flax in
large quantities, and in a number -of acres together.
u On the fineness of the stalk depends the fineness
of the fibre. To obtain, therefore, fine flax, the seed
must be sown very thickly, which can only be done
where the soil is well manured, and properly tilled.
“ It has been proved that when the flax is pulled
betwixt the falling of the flower and the formation of
the seed, the fibre is finer and more solid than at any


other time, so that unless it is wished to sacrifice the
quality of the flax to obtain seed, the former must
not aw r ait the full maturity of the latter.
“ Above all things, the rotation of crops must be
scrupulously observed ; if seven or eight years be
allowed to elapse before again sowing flax in the same
field, it is certain that there will be a good crop; but
the less the interval between the two crops, the less is
the second to be calculated on either for quality or
weight.
We need not observe how necessary it is to the
production of good flax, that the weeding of the fields
should be attended to with great care.”
[We may here say that the directions respecting
the use of the spade, manuring, rotation, and weeding,
are more particularly applicable, as regards their
rigid observance, to the worn-out lands of Europe
than to virgin soils. We would consider tw r o plough-
ings and a harrowing previous to scattering the seed
a sufficient cleansing and pulverisation—three years’
interval sufficient between one crop and another of
flax on the same soil—manuring wholly unnecessary
—and that the weeding, if children aie not “con-
venient,” might be performed by turning in sheep
or cattle, none of w r hom will touch the flax, or even
injure it (if done while young) by treading.]
“ In Belgium, the process of watering is conducted
under two different systems. At Courtrai, when pulled,
it is allowed to dry on the field, and is kept over all
winter before steeping. In this district, as is well
knowm, the flax is steeped in the clear and running
waters of the Lys, where it is perfectly pure from
any slime or mud.
“ In the Flanders district (Pays de Waes) the flax
is steeped immediately after pulling, being put in the
water w r hile still green, the water used being stagnant.
We think that in general the preference must be given
to the system employed in Flanders; firstly, because
it is difficult to find such a river as the Lys, where
the waters are so free from any filth; and, secondly,
because the flax when steeped before it dries is softer
and more mellow, and the fibre is whiter, not having
that yellow tint which is always found in flax that
has been dried. The linens which we saw in Ger-
many were of a pure and silvery white, and the
system pursued there in steeping, is that of Flanders.
It w r as pointed out to us, that the fibre of flax which
had been dried is equally strong, but that it is harder
and more yellow. Steeping in the manner followed
in Flanders, demands great care and attention, and a
particular knowledge of the process. As it is not
possible for us to explain all the details, we will con-
fine ourselves to requesting the District Committees to
send us from Flanders some persons competent to
give all the instructions necessary for performing it
w r ith success.
“ After the steeping, it is found to improve the
quality to keep the flax for a long time in the straw.
The older the flax the better it is. If before it had
any faults if, for example, it had been spotted, and
a bad colour from being badly exposed, it becomes
equalised and uniform by remaining for a long time
in the straw heaped together.
“ It is good to keep over the flax before spinning
it, not only in the straw, but after scutching, and
even after hackling. The Germans attach great im-
portance to haying a soft and silky fibre. To this
end they beat the flax alter scutching, they rub it
with an iron comb without teeth, and they are.espe- :
cially careful to let it grow old, either in straw or
after it has been scutched.”
As it may be sometime before the gentlemen from
Flanders may communicate with us, we revert to our
friend Giles, whose description of the pulling and
steeping process is said to be from his own actual
experience.
“ While the flax is growing, the husbandman
should be preparing his pond for steeping, [by clear-
ing the sides and bottom of weeds, mud, &c.] It
must be deep enough of soft fresh -water to cover the
flax in an upright position, and the outlet for the
water after the steeping is accomplished must not
conduct it back into the stream, which it would
entirely poison, but into a field or dungheap. [lt is
evident he is speaking of an interior farm, and his
care is to guard the flax against stains from mineral
or other admixture in the water, and to turn the
putrified refuse to account as manure. We believe
that sea water will do equally well, in which case
these precautions will be unnecessary.] When the
seed is just ripe [or earlier] the flax is to be pulled
in small handfuls, which are laid down separately-
that is, crossing each other, for the conveniency of
the person who is to ripple them, and, after the seed
is rippled off, the stalks are tied in bundles or sheaves,
placed on end, side by side, in the pond, covered with
stones to keep them down, and the water let in upon
them. When sufficiently steeped, the flax will re-
main under water of itself without the weights, and
will give forth an intolerable stench. The water is
then let out, the sheaves are carried to a sunny slope,
opened out and thinly spread on the grass in a regular
manner, to dry and bleach. When exposed a sufficient
time, which is known by the fibre easily separating
from the useless part of the plant, it is taken up, tied
in bundles, and sent to the mill. The seed, after
being ripped off, is spread thinly out that it may be
perfectly dried, [is disengaged from the seed vessels
by gentle bruising and winnowing,] and is afterwards
crushed to express the oil.”
The Penny Cyclopcedia says:—“Flax is every-,
where in Flanders a most important crop, for it much
exceeds all other crops in value.” And again—“ The
soil best adapted to the growth of flax is a deep rich
loam, in which much humus or vegetable mould is
contained. It should be mellow and loose to a con-
siderable depth, w r ith a sound bottom neither too dry
nor too moist —either extreme infallibly destroys the
flax [so we reasoned]. It is not suited, therefore,
either to hot gravelly soils, or to cold wet clays, but
any other soil may be so prepared and tilled as to
produce good flax. It thrives well in the rich allu-
vial land of Zealand and the Polders. But it is also
raised with great success on the light sands of
Flanders, but much more careful tillage and manur-
ing are required.”
GAFFER GRAY.
CHEMICAL PHILOSOPHY.
INVESTIGATION OF THE STRUCTURE, LAWS, AND COM-
BINATIONS OF VEGETABLES.
Ihe production growth of plants and leaves,
though apparently less interesting to us, on account
of their constant appearance and our familiarity with
their numerous beauties and uses, is however a higher
branch of knowledge than that of the solid parts
of the earth, in as much as it involves in it a portion of
that mystery called life , and ijnanifests to us a designs


ing providence. The flourishing of trees and plants
has connexion with, and resemblance to, the principle
of life or vitality in animals. We see in the mineral
kingdom a natural and unceasing course of cause and
effect, but in the vegetable kingdom we behold an
unerring design upheld by an unknown principle,
but which is subjected to destruction by the slightest
blast of the commotions of the atmosphere, or the
destructive agency of man.
Vegetables are called organised bodies , because they
are constructed with an arrangement of system which
enables them not only to carry on the necessary pro-
cess of enduring, but also of transmitting life. Again.
the constituents of vegetable and animal life are very
similar ; their elementary principles are carbon,
hydrogen, and oxygen ; besides which they always
contain phosphorus, sulphur, iron, silisic acid, potash,
lime, and some other ingredients. Some few contain
also nitrogen. If all the ingredients mentioned were
brought together and chemically combined by man
in their due proportions, a plant would not be produced,
for as has been said, in plants, as in the animal races,
structure and form must be induced by the trans-
mission of the divine and energetic principle called
life.
The circumstances requisite for the germination of
a seed, which it must be remembered already holds
the transmitted life of its predecessor, are moistened
earth, warmth, and air, the oxygen of which is slowly
converted : ito carbonic acid. The basis of life in
plants, as far as we can discern, is water , for in the
earliest stage of vegetation, a seed will grow if im-
mersed in water, or even if it is put on wet paper,
stone or cloth, its after growth depends upon the seed
itself, and varies according to kind and quality. The
ingredients of plants are so much alike in all, that
one plant will easily grow if grafted into another, never-
theless their varieties are very numerous and much
influenced by climate, the proportions also of their
constituents are dissimilar in themselves, and greatly
so in comparison with the animal races. (The mixture
of plants by grafting is greatly reprehended by some
persons, it being written, “ Behold I have given you
every herb bearing seed which is upon the face of all
the earth, and every tree in which is the fruit of a tree
yielding seed." I( And God saw every thing thathe had
made, and behold it was very good." Upon the same
grounds the intermarriage with nations might be ob-
jected to, as manifested by the Jewish people, seeing
God himself divided mankind by the confusion of
tongues. But we live under the liberty of a Christian
dispensation, and the same God has made of one blood
all the nations of the earth.) When the seed sown
softens and expands, it takes up nourishment from the
moistened earth, imbibing into its respective parts the
earthy materials. Sir Humphrey Davy discerned
that the cuticle of plants and the epidermis of trees,
absorb chiefly the silica or flinty earths, which as he
observes, “ serves as a support, protects the bark
from the action of insects, and seems to perform a part
similar to the shells of fish.” The water of the mois-
tened earth, holding in its solution the ingredients of
earth, also forms the sap, which circulates as well
through the wild flowers of the bush, the butter cup
of the meadows, and the cedar trees and oaks of the
forest, and may well be termed the juice of life.—
When there is an excess of this sap, it thickens and
takes the form of gum, or as it is chemically called
vzttcus. This sap which enters the roots and ascends
through the stem, and from thence is diffused through
all its branches and leaves, contains the vital nourish-
ment ; when it has reached the leaves it is passed into
the atmosphere by evaporation. The evaporation of
plants is an important function, for during this pro-
cess, they attract the carbonic acid from the air which
becomes incorporated in the plant, while the oxygen
returns back to the atmosphere. This action is how-
ever only carried on under the influence of light, for
when the shades of night appear, even plants and
vegetables do partially rest from their labours and
become inactive.
There is no part of the mechanism of nature that
we turn to and investigate, of which we cannot say,
How marvellous the design ! but when we can trace
the infinitude of variety observable in the form and
combination of colour in plants, and discern by
analysis that the ingredients of all are alike, differing
only in their proportions and arrangement, we may
w r ell say with the poet,
“We are lost in wonder, love and praise.”
The various purposes to which the vegetable produc-
tions are applied through the agency of chemistry
and mechanism, is also a theme for admiration. Every
house, from the palace to the bark hut ; every vessel
that floats upon the boundless ocean, from the gallant
man-of-war to the fe.ry boat; ha' its origin from
seeds that were sown by art, or nature, in the earth.
We have also our chief nourishment and palatable
indulgencies from the produce of vegetation. Bread,
beer, wine, fruit, sugar, 0i1,&c., &c., also, medicines,
gums, starch, dyes and clothing, for our convenience.
The productions of plants, are in fact, so numerously
and so constantly applied to the service of both man-
kind and the brute creation, that it must prove a
useful and interesting study to examine some of theit
productions relative to their respective preparations
for our use and comfort.
B.
A LADY WHISTLED INTO REASON.
Four months had flowed swiftly away since Edward
Somerton married Rosa Bland. One summer even-
ing, towards sunset, as they sat together at a window
opening on to a garden, enjoying the welcome cool-
ness, and talking over various matters with that
interest in each other which people generally evince
four months after marriage, Rose, for the first time,
began to pout. Edward had, she said, flirted shame-
fully with Mrs. Harding on the preceding evening.
He had spoken to her in a low tone several times, and
had been heard publicly to declare, that Harding was
a fortunate fellow. If this were the way he meant to
go on, she would be wretched, and no longer place
any confidence in his affection.
“ My pretty dear,” said Edward, placing his arm
around the waist of his wife, and accompanying this
action with another trifling performance, “ don’t be
jealous. Believe me there is no cause. On one of
the occasions when I addressed Mrs. Harding in so
low a tone, I remarked that the room was very warm ;
and, on another, if I remember rightly, that the last
new novel was rather dull *. so, you will perceive, our
conversation was of a most innocent description. And,
Rose, because I said Harding was a fortunate fellow,
it is not to be inferred that I must endeavour to render
him an unfortunate fellow.”
This mild answer failed to turn away the wrath of
Rose. She consequently refused to be convinced —


became every instant more and more unreasonable,
and, finally, retired precipitately from the room, with
her handkerchief applied to her eyes.
Edward quietly put up his feet on the chair she
had left vacant, and leaned back in meditation.
Here was the decisive moment which would most
likely determine whether they were to dwell together
for the future happily or miserably. Rose was a
dear girl—a sweet girl ; but she had black eyes, and
they are dangerous. She had been an only daughter,
too, and perhaps a little spoiled ; but, with fewrnr
faults, might she not have been less charming ? It
is worth studying how to live lovingly with such a
creature, especially when you know that she mars,
by her capriciousness, her own happiness as much as
yours.
Edward felt that the charge of his wife was totally
unfounded, and he half suspected she believed so her-
self, but had resolved to be, or seem to be, out of
humour, without any particular cause. One thing
vras evident, that she would not hear reason. Some-
thing else must, therefore, be tried, in order to allay
any future storm, for this avas, probably, the first of
a series. Edward resolved to try music.
He was an amateur of some pretension, and he set
himself immediately to call over in his memory the
melodies most likely to calm the passions and exert
a soothing effect on the temper. He made choice of
three, which he arranged in a graduated scale, to be
used according to the urgency of the occasion ; gentle,
more gentle, most gentle—as the outbreak -was or
became violent, more violent, most violent. The scale
contained only three degrees. As the heat rose, this
conjugal thermometer fell ; but below the third and
lowest degree, it was zero and undefined mystery.
Patience acted the part of mercury reversed.
The melodies the following, and were ar-
ranged in the following order :—“ In my Cottage,
near a Wood,” ** Sul margin d'un rio,” and “ Home
sweet Home !” They were all of a pleasing, touch-
ing character ; the last, purely domestic, and under
the circumstances, conveyed a delicate satire, likely
to do good. He had hitherto played these popular
airs on the German flute, but he now proposed to
execute them in a graceful, apparently unpremeditated
whistle. Not such a whistle as may be heard in the
streets, proceeding from the lips of coarse-minded
butcher boys, but a superior sort of thing, such as no
gentleman need be ashamed of : in fact, the original
wild production cultivated and improved, as the crab
is changed into the pippin.
His plan thus settled, Edward felt his mind easy,
and he awaited the appearance of Mrs. Somerton
with a gratifying consciousness of be og ready for
whatever might occur.
In due time came coffee. The I lady came
too, and with a placid countenance, betraying no lin-
gering evidence of its late unamiable expression.
Neither husband nor wife made any allusion to their
misunderstanding, and they passed a delightful even-
ing, made up of conversation, the pianoforte, and
chess.
But the next morning—the very next morning—
Rose favoured her dear Edward with number two of
the series. She wanted him to walk out with her
but he declared that, unfortunately, he. should be too
busy to go out all day This was quite sufficient raw
material for a girl of high spirit to work upon.
“ I’m sure you don’t want to go, Edward,” said
she, pouting in exact imitation of fit number one—•
ct at least, you don’t want to go with me.”
Edward plunged both hands into the pocket of his
dressing gown, threw himself indolently on a sofa,
gazed abstractedly at a bronze bust of Shakspeare
on the mantelpiece, and began whistling, in a low
tone, a plaintive melody :it was—“ In my Cottage
near a Wood.”
“ If it were any one but your wife,” continued
Mrs. Somerton, with pointed emphasis, ” you w’ould
be ready enough to come, but the wives are always
neglected.”
Mr. Somerton continued whistling.
“ I beg Mr. Somerton,” exclaimed Mrs. Somerton,
with a withering look, “that you w T ill not whistle in
that very disagreeable manner while I am speaking.
If I am not worthy of your love, I trust that I am
worthy of common attention.”
Edward plunged his hands deeper into his pockets,
removed his eyes from the bust of Shakspeare, and
fixed them with intense regard on a bust of Milton.
He paused suddenly in the air he was whistling, and
commenced another : it was— Sul margine d'un rio.
Mrs, Somerton retired hastily, with her pretty face
buried in a white cambric pocket handkerchief.
For five whole days, after this scene, all was hal-
cyon weather. Doves might have beheld and envied.
Honey was still to be found in the moon, and no im-
politic reference to either of the two foolish quarrels
gave any—the slightest—dash of bitter.
But , on the sixth day, there appeared clouds. Ed-
ward had been into town, and had promised to bring
a pair of new bracelets for Rose. He arrived home
punctually at dinner time, but without the bracelets \
he had forgotten them. I put it to you whether this
was not enough to try the temper of a saint ! They
were, going the next evening to a large party, and
Rose had intended to inspect the important ornament*
on this evening, and take Edward’s opinion, so that
there might be time to change them if not approved
of. Now she could not do so, and all from his horrid
forgetfulness; She must either go in stupid—old
fashioned things, or put on new ones in a hurry,
good or bad, just as they happened to be. It wa*
most annoying—that it avas !
Edward made many apologies. He was sincerely
sorry to have disappointed her, and even offered to
return to town after dinner and repair his neglect.
Oh, no! she would not hear of his taking so much
trouble for her ! What did he care whether she were
disappointed or not ? His forgetfulness showed how
much he thought of her.
Edward again essayed the soothing system ; for he
loved her, and was conscious that he had given her
cause for some light chagrin. However, she became
so perverse, that but one course avas left for him to
pursue : he left off talking, and took to whistling.
I tremble for the future peace of Rose, while I
relate that he considered himself justified in descend-
ing at once to the second degree of the scale. He
commenced— Adanie ma non troppo , “ Sul margine
d'un rio.”
“To leave me in such a situation!” exclaimed the
ill-used wife, in a voice interrupted by sobs, “ when
I had so set my heart on those bracelets! It is very
—very unkind, Edward.”
Edward appeared wrapped in meditation and music.
He whistled with great taste and feeling, accenting
the first note of each bar as it should be accented.


But, on another still more cutting observation from
Mrs. Somerton, he stopped short, looked sternly at
her, and began “ Sweet Home !”
Heavens! what was to follow ? He had reached j
the last degree, and all else was at random. Should !
this fail, the case was, indeed, hopeless. Shadowy
demons hovered around, holding forth, temptingly,
deeds of separation. The bright gold wedding ring
on the lady’s finger grew dull and brassy.
Edward Somerton stood in the centre of the room
with his arms folded, gazing with a steady gaze into
the very soul of his wife, who, under the strange
fascination, could not turn away her head. With a
clear and tremulous whistle he recited the whole of
that beautiful Sicilian melody, from the first note to
the last; then, revolving on his heel, without saying
a word, he left the room, shutting the door punc-
tiliously after him. Mrs. Somerton sank overpowered
on the sofa.
Rose, though pretty, was not silly. She saw
clearly that she had made a mistake, and, like a sen-
sible girl, she resolved not to go on with it, merely
because she had begun it. Bad temper, it seemed,
would only serve to make her ridiculous, instead of
interesting, and that was not altogether the effect
desired.
In half an hour the husband and wife met at the
dinner table. Mrs. Somerton sat, smilingly, at its
head, and was very attentive in helping Mr. Somerton
to the choicest morsels. He was in unusually high
spirrits, and a more happy small party could scarcely
be met with.
From that day, which was ten years ago, to the
present time, Mrs. Somerton had never found fault
without a cause. Once or twice, indeed, she has
gone so far as to look serious about nothing ; but the
frown left her countenance at once when Edward
began to whistle, in a low tone, as if unconsciously,
the first bars of “ Iu my Cottage, near a Wood.”
Original Poetry.
AUSTRALIAN FABLES.
No. II.
THE HONEY SUCKER AND THE BEE.
Where Wolloomooloo water laves,
With puny yet pellucid waves,
The rocks of our domain ;
’ Mid lofty gum and scrubby tea,
And flowers to tempt the humming bee,
An honey suckle plain
Rears its rough trunk and curved stems,
Supporting saw-leaf’d diadems,
Each with its beauteous flower ;
Whose orange-colour’d petals twin’d,
Each over each, hold sweets enshrin'd,
Meet for a summer bower !
Thither the bees with busy hum,
From morn till even, go and come,
Their labour to fulfil;
There too, a speckled-breasted bird,
On golden wing,the flowers disturb’d
With honey-sucking bill.
A bee, with thighs well cover’d o’er
With its ambrosial, flowery store,
In angry tone addressed
The honey sucker, who had come
To seek a dinner, far from home,
Who here had found a feast.
“ What right have you to live so well,
Of honey drops to take your fill,
And never work a day ;
While I must labour hard, and take
All that I gather, home to make
My wax without delay ?’*
Quoth Honey Sucker, “ Mrs. Bee,
There’s quite enough for you and me,
Why should you then complain?
If I with ease my share enjoy,
While you to profit your’s employ,
While summer days remain ;
“Then should the summer sun withdraw,
Or the bright heavens with tempest lower,
You have no cause to mourn ;
While I must starve —you in your hive,
Will on your labour live and thrive,
Till brighter days return.”
Let the poor labourer be content,.
And not dissatisfied lament
His neighbour’s greater ease ;
When there is little left for all,
The happiest he whose wishes small,
That little then will please.
£5“
A THOUGHT.
What is a thought? A changing thing,
Which fancy doth control.
It genders in the early spring
Of blossoms in the soul.
What is a thought ? A darting ray,
Which glitters to apprise
The mind of secrets, which convey
Deception to the eyes.
What is a thought? A sudden gleam,
That flashes on the brain ;
It sparkles in the poet’s theme,
And on the bed of pain :
It tends to make the future glow ;
It lingers to pour tray
The present ills, the past of woe,
Which time hath swept away.
What is a thought ? Tis wisdom’s child,
Her fondest, brightest star,
That guides to see, through desarts wild,
Eternity afar.
W. P.
BENJEE CREEK.
“ The shady brook, i’ the solitary dell.”
I mind some happy days, long time ago,
When hope was warm and bright,
Ere infant heart had dreamt of aged woe,
Or visioned aught of earthly blight:
Mid forest flowers, beneath bright summer skies,
Were wont our early joys to seek,
All bound by spells of love, and natal ties,
Our own dear Benjee Creek !
Earth hath not purer gifts than thine,
O Memory ! ever blessed maid!
Sweet feelings of the soul, upon thy shrine
In Eden seem arrayed ;
Nor all that time, with ruthless hand,
Upon this heart shall wreak,
Will e’er unclose affection’s silken band
For thee, fair Benjee Creek !
A. Z.
Going Round. —An Irish clerk was seen support-
ing himself by the iron railings of Lincoln’s Inn
Fields, and a passer-by, observing that he was in
liquor, advised him to go home, when he answered—
“Ah, now, be aisy ; I live in the square :—isn’t it
going round and round, and when I see my own door
come up, won’t I pop into it in a jiffey.”


EXTRACTS.
“ There is a story extant of Sheridan, the lessee,
and Holland, the architect, much too good to be
omitted. The latter could by no means prevail upon
the former to settle , that is, in plain English, to pay
up his little bill ; and after hanging about Sherry’s
house, and hovering over the theatre day after day, at
last caught him one fine morning attending a rehearsal.
As soon as Sheridan saw him, he went up to the
architect, exclaiming, ‘ My dear Holland, how d’ye
do ? You are the very man I wanted to see ; I have
a thousand apologies to make to you, and fully in-
tended to call upon you as soon as the rehearsal was
over.’ Holland thanked him, and entered immediately
upon the subject of their accounts, upon which She-
ridan replied, ‘ My dear Holland they shall all be
settled in the course of the morning ; but do you know,
although for my part I am one of the most enthusiastic
admirers of the beauty of this theatre, which I think
will remain for years a splendid monument of your
taste and genius, yet they tell me that the people in
the one shilling gallery can scarcely hear a word that
the performers utter?’ Mr. Holland expressing his
surprise at this remark, Sheridan said, * Now, I will
go up into the gallery, and you shall stay on the stage.
I will address you, and you shall ascertain the truth
of the observation yourself. Sheridan, accordingly
mounted up into the lofty region allotted to the gods,
from whence he affected, in dumb show, and with
much apparent emphasis, to address the architect, who
stood in amazement below, repeatedly calling out,
* Speak louder, I can’t hear !’ After some time spent
in this manner, Sheridan descended, asking Holland
if he heard him tolerably well ? the latter declaring
that he must confess that he had not heard a word
Mr. Sheridan had uttered ; whereupon the latter ex-
claimed, £ Why, Holland, I really know not how to
believe you. Why, I have been bawling till I thought
my lungs would have burst. Surely you have a cold
this morning, that has prevented you from hearing
me. Now, do you ascend the gallery, and speak to
me.' With this proposal Holland immediately com-
plied, and when after considerable fatigue he had
reached that elevated spot, and had walked down to
the front seat to address Sheridan from that tremen-
dous height, he found no one on the stage ! Sheridan
had availed himself of the interval of their separation
to leave the theatre, and poor Mr. Holland, who
speedily discovered the hoax, had to encounter a
thousand shifts and stratagems of the manager, before
he could obtain another successful interview.”
Marriage a Lottery. —Our readers are acquainted
with the singular freak of the young man who made
a lottery of himself. The following has been the de-
nouement of this ingenious speculation, for the truth
of which a provincial journal refers to the civil registry
of Lyons : —The drawing took place in the fairest
manner possible, in the presence of a notary and se-
veral witnesses. Mdlle. Euphrase 8., a young lady
of fortune, at Lyons, won the young man. A singu-
lar incident occurred after the drawing had been de-
cided. The young lady was still unaware of her own
good fortune, when, one morning, a lady waited upon
her, in a state of the most painful excitement. “ Save
my life, Mademoiselle!” “ How ?” “Cede your
ticket to me.” “ What ticket ?” “ The lottery ticket
—the ticket for the young man.” “ Oh, I had quite
forgotten it.” “ Then know, Mademoiselle, that I
love, that I adore him. I had taken thirty tickets ;it
was as much as my means would allow of my doing.
My tickets are all blanks. Yours is the only prize.
Cede it to me, or you will cause my death.” “ Ma-
dame,” replied Mademoiselle Euphrase, “ there is a
written clause on the tickets, that, if the
should not please me, or if I should not please the
young man, we are to divide the 200,0C0 francs,
and not to marry one another. This chance remains
for you ; as for my ticket, I shall keep it.” An hour
afterwards, the prize young man presented himself to
Euphrase ; they were mutually satisfied, and lost no
time in binding the conjugal knot. The lady who
had been so anxious to obtain Euphrase’s ticket was
a widow, of Carcassonne, who is said to have destroyed
herself. The young couple united by lottery are
spending their honeymoon at Narbonne—Constilu-
tionnel.
Mesmerism in China —Something of every discovery
under the sun has been in a rudimental state among
the Chinese, and here we have another miraculous
j example . —“ It would appear from a recent work,
I that the Chinese barbers mesmerise, for the purpose
of rendering the operation of shaving less disagreeable,
and, perhaps, in some instances, where the sensibility
is required to be blunted. ‘I observed,’ says the
author, ‘ that the greater number of the patients slept
while they were being shaved, and could not account
for this singularity. But one morning I observed a
man seat himself a little apart from the rest. I began
my task of sketching, when the barber, instead of
commencing his operations, placed himself before his
customer, and first of all took hold of his hand, then
passed his hand several times over the shoulders, and
before the face of the sitter, who shortly fell into a
state of quiet drowsiness, if he did not actually go to
sleep. He then moved his customer’s head about in
every direction, to facilitate the operation of shaving.
! When he had finished, he shook the sleeper gently, and
awoke him. I frequently saw the same thing prac-
tised afterwards.’ ” — Lee's Animal Magnetism.
The King of Hanover civilizes his subjects by pro-
hibiting the smoking of tobacco. Whoever is dis-
covered smoking in the streets is obliged to pay a
considerable fine, especially if he smokes passing one
of the numerous guards of the capital.
Geography. —A butcher’s boy in New York, it is said, says
he has often heard of the fore quarters of the globe, but
never heard anything about the hind quarters.
Jiftarrtage.
On the 7th instant, at St. Mary’s Cathedral, by the Most
Rev. the Archbishop of Sydney, Richard O’Connor, Esq., to
Mary, daughter of William Harnett, Esq., of Newcastle, county
of Limerick.
33frti)S.
At Morpeth, on the 23rd December, Mrs. Dr. John
Stewart, of a son.
At Orton Park, Bathurst, on Sunday the 29th December,
1844, the lady of Mr. John T. Lane, of a son.
At Brookfield, Williams River, on Sunday last, Mrs. Robert
Murray, of a son.
On Wednesday, Ist. January, 1845, Mrs. J. M. Illidge, of
George-street, Sydney, of a daughter.
At Chippendale, on. the Ist instant, the lady of Mr. T„
Phillips, surgeon, of a son.
SRatfjs.
At Macquarie Bathurst, on Friday, the 20th ultimo,
Charles Samuel, the youngest son of William Lawson, jun.,
Esq.
At her residence, Fort-street, on the 31gt December, Mrs.
Elizabeth Bolger, aged 76 years.


pipping Intelligence.
ARRIVALS.
January 4.—'The schooner Martha and Elizabeth, 81 tons,
Captain Devlin, from Port Phillip, the 29th ultimo.
January s.—The schooner Mary Ann, 51 tons, Captain
Amner, from Port Phillip, the 29th ultimo.
January 6.—The barque Columbian, 275 tons, Captain
Wakem, from Liverpool the 20th September.
January 6.—The barque Agincourt,, 669 tons, Captain
Neatby, from Norfolk Island the 30th ultimo.
January 6.—The brig William, 149 tons, Captain Thom,
from Launceston the 2nd instant.
January s.—The barque Victor, 338 tons, Captain Morgan,
from Gravesend, the 18th September.
January 7.—The steamer Maittand, 103 tons, Captain Par-
sons, from Port Macquarie.
DEPARTURES.
Jauuary 2.—The brig Emma, Captain Fox, for Port
Adelaide.
January 2.—The barque Lanchester, Captain Purchase, for
London.
January 4.—The schooner Vanguard, Captain Pilford,
for Port Phillip.
January 4.—The schooner Waterlily, Captain Hayle, for
Hobart Town.
January s.—The ship St. George, Captain Norie, for
London.
January s.—The ship Templar, Captain Brown, for
London.
January s.—The brig Christina, Captain Saunders, for
Port Phillip.
CTolontal Eitcravy
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
mHE TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION to this Journa
I. are, Three Shillings per Quarter, in Town ; Country
Three Shillings and Sixpence; payable, in every case
in advance.
Terms for Advertisements :—For one inch, and under
Three Shillings; and One Shilling for every additional inch,
each insertion. Advertisements will be received until Two
o’Clock on Wednesday afternoon; but cannot be withdrawn
later than Nine o’Clock on Wednesday morning. Adver-
tisements must specify on the face of them the number of
times they are to be inserted, or they will be continued till
countermanded, and charged accordingly.
All communications must be addressed to “The Editor of
the Colonial Literary Journal, General Printing Office, 316,
Pitt-street,” (post paid.)
COLOURED DAGUERREOTYPES !!
49, SUWTER STREET,
(Two doors from O' Connell-street.)
MR. G. B. GOODMAN has great pleasure to announce
to the public, that he has just received from the
Patentee in England, the new process, lately discovered, of
colouring the Daguerreotype Portraits, and having already
executed some very beautiful likenesses in this style, he will
be happy to submit them to the inspection of those who will
favour him with a visit.
Tt may be as well for general information to observe, that
these Portraits are taken almost instantaneously, and produce
as faithful a representation of the face and figure as is pre-
sented by standing opposite a mirror, being in fact the reflec-
tion itself fixed permanently in the glass or polished surface,
thus producing in effect a “ Second Self.”
The pictures effected by this art are superior to the finest
engravings for delicacy of shadowing and minuteness of
delineation, and have hitherto only wanted colour to make
them perfect, which grand desideratum has been at length
achiev>d, and. Mr. G. B. Goodman hastens to apprise the
public of this most important addition.
On account of the depression of the times the price wil
still be limited to one guinea for the coloured likeness, includ-
ing a handsome gilt and morocco case.
Specimens to be seen at Mr. Isaac Levey’s, Draper, George-
street, and Mr. Aldis’s, Tobacconist; the Bank of Australia;
and at iby Photogi'aphic Gallery, 49, Hunter-street.
Sydney, November 25.
AL3EET HOUSE, FITT-STEEET,
JAMES M‘EVOY, in returning thanks to his friends and
patrons for the very liberal patronage bestowed upon him
since his commencement in business, hastens to inform them
that he has justopened, ex Parrock Hall , a splendid description
of goods, consisting of—
First-rate West of England blue and black cloths.
Buckskins, black and white check cassimeres.
The most splendid description of shawl-pattern vestings.
Washing satins, and silk velvets.
Figured and plain satins, for scarfs or waistcoats.
Corded silk ditto, buff cassimeres.
An immense assortment of ducks and drills, unequalled in th*
colony for strength and durability.
And a most splendid assortment of cloths and trimmings for
ladies’ riding habits.
J. M. also begs to inform the aristocracy and gentry of
Australia, that he has in his possession a collection of
LIVERY BUTTONS,
With crests belonging to the leading families in New South
Wales ; and being the only holder of the above in Sydney, he
feels proud in asserting that no other house can furnish them.
He also respectfully offers his services in procuring from
England any crest button which may be attached to a family,
at a very trifling expense.
January 1.
WEW YEAR’S GIFT FOR THE YEAR 1845.
FORGERY.
HC. JERVIS, General and Practical Engraver, and
. Copper-Plate Printer, grateful for the support he has
received during the past year, begs to announce the arrival,
per Sarah Scott, of a very extensive assortment of plain, fancy
and enamelled Cards, which will enable him to execute orders
much lower than heretofore; also, the arrival of a unique
machine ; being the latest and most improved invention for the
suppression of FOR.GERY.
H. C. J. therefore, in offering his services to the Public
generally, states with great confidence that he is now prepared
to execute every description of Ornamental Ground-work and
Bordering, in a manner never yet attempted in the Colony.
Every description of Engraving and Copper-Plate Printing
executed on the premises.
Observe, 332, Pitt-street North,
opposite Dr. Bland’s.
N. B. No connexion with any other person or persons
whatever.
TO IET,
UNFURNISHED APARTMENTS, in a convenient and
quiet neighbourhood, in the City. Rent moderate. For
cards of address apply at the Office of the Colonial Literary
Journal, 316, Pitt-street.
TO LET.
APARTMENTS suitable for Offices, together with Stable
and Gig House, if required, situate in a central part of
Pitt-street, near King-street, for particulars apply at the Office
of this Journal.
Colonial Xdterary Journal.
Collector for Sydney Mr. Francis Wye.
Our Subscribers are requested to observe that the Quarterly Sub-
scription to the Journal is made payable in advance. The
present heavy expenses require this. Those therefore who have
omitted to pay the last two quarters' subscription, together with the
present one in advance, are requested to forward the same to the
nearest Agent at their earliest convenience.
Agents for tliis Journal.
Sydney, Mr. W. Jones, Circulating Library, Brickfield-hill.
Parramatta Mr. Hugh Taylor.
Windsor Mr. Walker.
Bathurst Mr. Tress.
West Maitland Mr. Galloway:
Camden, Campbelltown , Penrith , and
Liverpool . Mr. C. Lester.
Gunnins . •• • Mr. Hawthorne.
