

COLONIAL
LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
il NON TUA TE MOVEANT, SED PUBLICA VOTA.”
Vol. I.' No. 18.]
SYDNEY, THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1844.
[Price 4d.
THEORY AND PRACTICE.
We may trace the all-wise and beneficent hand of
Providence, as Mr. Wade remarks in his history of the
middle and working classes, in the fact that those
things most essential to happiness either exist in great
profusion, or are easily attainable. Bread, fuel, air
and water, for instance, are most necessary to sub-
sistence, and they are most extensively diffused. In
morals, no less wisdom is displayed. The great land-
marks of right and wrong are as palpable to the Indian
as to the philosopher ; that we should do as we would
be done by, is a maxim on the Ganges as well as on
the Thames. And in science, the most valuable
truths, those most extensively useful, are the most
simple and most level to the ordinary capacity of the
human species.
From this may be inferred, first, that the most per-
fect happiness consists in the enjoyment of those gifts
which are generally accessible to mankind ; secondly,
that we rather augment our misery than otherwise, by
attempting to substitute an excess of refinement for
the simple pleasures nature has provided.
Health, for example, is best promoted by plain diet,
exercise, a regard to temperature, and other observances
which are within every one’s reach : virtue, not by
aspiring to extreme and imaginary excellence, but by
observing those rules of which a monitor is found in
every bosom ; and man’s most perfect intellectual state
consists, more in the application of common truths,
than abstruse speculation. We mean to show that
happiness is not so much promoted by great talents
as by moderate abilities; and that it is not so much
by extending the boundaries of science, as by diffusing
more generally the knowledge we already possess, that
mankind can be benefited.
It has been remarked, that genius, not the want of
it, adulterates philosophy, and fills it with error and
false theory. This arises from the constitution of
original minds, whose tendency is to make discoveries
rather than to improve the old ones; having seized an
important truth, the next step is to render it the basis
of a system. But if genius fails in planning, it is not
less unfortunate in creating. Men of great talents are
seldom successful in life. If they attempt legislation,
their suggestions are too abstract and general to be of
practical utility; in medicine and law, they are too
theoretical; in divinity, too controversial; in trade,
too remiss; some want industry, some probity, some
are too sanguine, others too lax ; but all want success.
I hey grasp at the remote, and overlook the inter-
mediate ; while the half-witted practical man, who
begins at the beginning, advancing with slow unde-
viating step, reaches first the goal of his ambition.
The inutility of theory only may be inferred from the
little benefit that has been derived from it. Although
the great truths of morals, religion, and government,
have long been ascertained, we are comparatively
little benefited by their application ; and innumerable
lawyers, divines, and politicians, are necessary to in-
culcate practically the first principles of knowledge
and justice. In human affairs, nothing is more extra-
ordinary than the constant inconsistency between
truths that are admitted, and the practices they con-
demn. Few, for instance, doubt that virtue is happi-
ness, that honesty is the best policy ; there is hardly
any statesman who denies that government can only
be permanent when conducted on the basis of public
utility ; nor any religionist who does not admit that
toleration, in matters of faith, to a certain extent, is
most consonant to scripture and good policy. These
maxims are rarely disputed, yet in practice they are
very imperfectly acted upon. How can this anomaly
be explained, unless on the supposition that men of
talent are more occupied in adding to the discoveries of
their predecessors, or in building upon their fallacious
theories, than in rendering them practically useful ?
Mere speculation is frequently not only useless, but
productive of positive misery. The common saying
that extremes meet, is singularly exemplified in the
effects of ignorance and refinement. The lowest state
of intellectual prostration is that of the savage of New
South Wales, void of curiosity, forethought, and emu-
lation, immersed in sloth, with scarcely any perception
of moral distinction. This is deplorable enough, and
hardly less is the other extreme. Minds zealous in the
pursuit of truth, have frequently ended their enquiries
by doubting its existence ; and the most ardent in
seeking the foundation of virtue and fame, have
finished by considering them unreal mockeries, and
man himself a mere creature of sense ansl selfishness.
Deprived of the wholesome excitements of ordinary
life, they relapse into the vice and apathy of a state of
nature. In one case, intellectual degradation results
from paucity of ideas ; in the other, from their per-
plexing multiplicity; hut in both are extinguished the
generous impulses which render life useful, happy,
and honorable.
It may be doubted whether nature ever intended
all her secrets to be explored, or too closely inves-
tigated. Viewed externally, she displays both power
and magnificence ; but if we attempt to penetrate her
laboratory, it has been truly remarked, we are fre


quently surprised by the apparent inadequacy of her
instruments, or the meanness of her agency. How
wonderful, for instance, is the human mind ; yet, if we
examine the chamber of the brain, if we attempt to
comprehend the mechanism by which intellectual
phenomena are produced, how we are baffled and
disappointed! Again, the heart, what a source of
emotion! the tongue, -what an organ of eloquence!
the eye, how wonderful its powers!—or what more
surprising than a seed expanding into the most beau-
tiful foliage, or an acorn into the magnificent oak!
In all these, our astonishment is excited by viewing
nature in her maturity, not in her infancy ; in con-
templating her, not in undress, but when she comes
forth adorned for action and enjoyment. She is a
superb amphitheatre, in which, if man were satisfied
to be a spectator, he might be delighted with the
splendour and luxury of her entertainments ; but when
he ventures beyond the proscenium, or descends into
the kitchen to see how the viands are prepared, he is
not unfrequently mortified with the nothingness or
repulsiveness of his discoveries, and the destruction of
the illusions that formed his felicity.
What, it may be asked, is to be inferred from all
this ? Why, simply thus much —that life has become
to many far too artificial an occupation, whereby they
deprive themselves of the power of enjoying in sim-
plicity the good which is abundantly provided for
them. The one-half of mankind are seen to be con-
stantly engaged in seeking out means wherewith they
may make themselves miserable. True happiness,
which they trample under foot, must always mainly
consist in following inclinations subject to the control
of reason and justice. Each individual has some
ruling passion, from the correct indulgence of which
his own welfare, as well as that of the community, is
best promoted. Some, indeed, would incline one to
think that all mankind should be graduated to one
standard (their own, of course) of excellence ; but
nothing can be more erroneous. It is not requisite
that all men should be philosophers, poets, or states-
men ; diversity in character and pursuits being as
necessary to the harmony of the moral, as variety of
production to the natural, world.
THE BASKET-MAKER.
The ancient Britons have been celebrated for their skill in the
manufacture of baskets, from the time of the Romans ; and so
much were the English baskets valued by that people, that
immense quantities of them were exported to Rome, where
they were held in great estimation, and bore so high a price,
that they are mentioned by Juvenal, among the extravagant
and expensive furniture of the Roman tables of his time.
The ancient Druids, during their celebration of their horrible
religious rites, used basket work for enclosing a number of
human victims preparatory to their being burnt.
Baskets are made either of rushes, splinters, or willows,
which last are, according to their growth, called osiers or sal-
lows. They thrive best in moist places ; and the proprietors
of such marsh lands generally let what they call the willow-
beds to persons who cut them at certain seasons, and prepare
them for basket-makers. To form an osier bed, the land should
be divided into plots, six, eight, or ten feet broad, by narrow
ditches, and if there is a power of keeping water in these cuts,
at pleasure, by means of a sluice, it is highly advantageous in
many seasons. Osiers planted in small spots, and along hedges,
will supply a farmer with hurdle-stuff, as well as with a pro-
fusion of all sorts of baskets. The common osier is cut at three
years, but that with yellow bark is permitted to remain a year
lon o'er.
When the osiers are cut down, those that are intended for
white-work, such as baskets used in washing, are to be stripped
of their bark or rind while green. This is done by means of
a sharp instrument fixed into a firm block; the osiers are
passed over this, and stripped of their covering with great velo-
city. They are then dried and put in bundles for sale.—
Before they are worked up, they must be previously soaked in
water, which gives them flexibility. Hampers and other
coarse work are made of osiers without any previous prepara-
tion except soaking. Some expert workmen make a variety
of articles of wicker manufacture, as work-baskets of different
descriptions, table mats, fruit baskets for deserts, &c.
The business of a basket-maker requires but a small capital,
either of money or of ingenuity, in consequence of which, it
has been fixed upon as one of the most proper occupations for
that class of our suffering fellow-creatures, the indigent blind,
for whom asylums are established in different cities of the
empire, and where the act of basket-making is carried to a
surprising degree of perfection. Besides affording the pupils
instruction gratis, these asylums allow them a weekly sum,
proportioned to the nature of their work, and the proficiency
made by them, thereby relieving them, in some degree at least,
from the painful idea of absolute dependence on the bounty of
others ; and, which is of scarcely less importance, affording
them an active employment for those hours which would be
otherwise spent in despondency and gloom.
Baskets have, of late years, been introduced by coach-makers,
to form the bodies of gigs, for which purpose they are parti-
cularly well calculated, as we know of no other means, whereby
so much strength can be obtained with so'little weight. The
mail-carts in London, and many of the stage-coaches have
been fitted with basket-work, for the purpose of carrying
parcels; and we are convinced that the principle of basket-
making might be extended, with good effect, to many other
purposes, where the three qualities of strength, lightness, and
elasticity are required.
On the shores of North America, is found a remarkable fish,
called the basket-fisk. Its body resembles that of a star-fish,
and it is furnished with numerous arms to catch its prey.—
.When caught with a hook, it clasps the bait, and encircles it
with its many arms, coming up in the form of a wicker-basket,
whence it has its name.
By some accident it once happened that a rich man and a
poor pennyless basket maker were thrown on a distant island,
inhabited only by a savage race of men. The former, seeing
himself exposed to apparent danger, without the means of as-
sistance or defence, and ignorant of the language of the people
in whose power he was, begun to cry and wring his hands in a
piteous manner; but the poor man, ever accustomed to labour,
made signs to the people, that he was desirous of becoming
useful to them ; on which account they treated him with kind-
ness, but the other they regarded with contempt.
One of the savages found something like a fillet, with which
he adorned his forehead, and seemed to think himself extremely
fine. The basketmaker taking advantage of his vanity, pulled
up some reeds, and, sitting down to work, in a short time
finished a very elegant wreath, which he placed upon the head
of the first inhabitant he chanced to meet. This man was so
pleased with his new acquisition, that he danced and capered
about for joy, and ran to seek his companions, who were all
struck with astonishment at this new and elegant piece of
finery. It was not long before another came to the basket-
maker, making signs that he also wanted to be ornamented
like his companion, and with such pleasure were these chaplets
received by the whole tribe, that the basket-maker was conti-
nually employed in weaving them. In return for the pleasure
which he conferred upon them, the grateful savages brought
him every kind of food which their country afforded, built him
a hut, and shewed him every demonstration of gratitude and
kindness. But the rich man, who possessed neither talent to
please, nor strength to labour, was condemned to be the basket-
maker’s servant, and cut him reeds to supply the continual
demand for chaplets. Such are the advantages of industry
and ingenuity. ,
THE FOUR TURKISH SULTANIES,* DYNASTIES,
OR CALIPHATES.
1 Bagdad, which arose .. •• a. d. 1055
2 Damascus, .. •• •• •• 1079
3 Aleppo, .. .. •• •• 1079
4 Iconium, .. . • .. .. 1080
* For about two centuries, these ambitious Sultans were
restrained from extending their conquests, by the Crusades,
or, as they were called, holy wars.


ON THE STATE BEST ADAPTED TO HUMAN
HAPPINESS.
“ Vitam quae faciunt beatiorem,
Jucundissime Martialis, liaec sunt;
Res non parta labore, sed relicta ;
Non ingratus ager; focus perennis;
Lis nunquam ; toga rara ; mens quieta ;
Vires ingenuae, salubre corpus ;
Prudens simplicitas ; pares amici;
Convictus facilis, sine arte mensa ;
Nox non ebria, sed soluta curis ;
Non tristis torus, attamen pudicus ;
Somnus qui faciat breves tenebras ;
Quod sis, esse velis, nihilque malis ;
Sumraum nec metuas diem, nec optes.”
MARTIAL
x. 47.
<( Since, dearest friend, ’tis your desire to see
A true receipt of happkiess from me ;
These are the chief ingredients, if not all:
Take an estate neither too great, nor small,
Which quantum sufficit the doctors call.
Let this estate from parent’s care descend;
The getting it too much of life does spend.
Take such a ground, whose gratitude may be
A fair encouragement for industry.
Let constant fires the winter’s fury tame;
And let thy kitchen be a vestal flame.
Thee to the town let never suit at law,
And rarely, very rarely, business draw.
Thy active mind in equal temper keep,
In undisturbed peace, yet not in sleep.
Let exercise a vigorous health maintain,
Without which all the composition’s vain.
In the same weight prudence and innocence take;
Ana of each does just the mixture make.
But a few friendships wear, and let them be
By nature and by fortune fit for thee.
Instead of art and luxury in food,
Let mirth and freedom make thy table good;
If any cares into the day time creep.
At night, without wine’s opium, let them sleep.
Let rest, that Nature does to darkness wed,
And not lust, recommend to thee thy bed ;
Be satisfied, and pleased, with what thou art;
Act cheerfully and well the allotted part;
Enjoy the present hour, be thankful for the past,
And neither fear, nor wish the approaches of the last.”
COWLEY.
I have often deeply reflected liow far this state
of existence is in right of itself capable of happiness ;
and what are the circumstances which afford the best
chance of attaining it; and I am firmly convinced
that the description given by Martial of the ingredients
most conducive to it, is founded not merely in the
dreams of a poet’s fancy, but in solid and unal-
terable truth.
The great, difficulty is the concurrence of the in-
gredient, which is least likely to be combined with
the rest, but without which all the rest are vain :
“ Quod sis, esse velis; nihilque malis.”
Unless a man knows how to value such a lot;
unless he is thoroughly aware of the emptiness or the
perplexities of wealth, and grandeur, and rank, and
power; as long as he is dazzled by show, or sighs
after distinction; the moderate pleasures within his
reach will appear insipid and dull.
To see so large a portion of mankind pass by,
unheeded, the very exquisite enjoyments, which offer
themselves to their embrace, in pursuit of the most
delusive phantoms, which they are seeking at the
expense of ease, virtue, health, fortune, and repu-
tation, is indeed amongst the most deplorable proofs
of our fallen nature. To rise of a morning with a
head unburthened with perplexing business, and a
heart unclouded with care ; to behold, as the sun
pierces through the mistiness of the dawn, the scenes
of nature opening before us in dewy brilliance ; to be
at liberty to wander uncontrolled amid this beautiful
landscape, and, while exercise strengthens and braces
the body, to inhale freshness and exquisite odours,
and exhilarating spirits, from the pure airs of heaven,
is not mere negative happiness, but rapture and
enchantment! From hence to return home, even to
a straw-roofed cottage, where there is neatness, and
competence, and peace; and a book, and a virtuous
friend, of a cultivated mind, to meet one; is only a
variety, and not a diminution, of the day’s pleasure.
The sacred charm of innocence, instead of leaving the
sting of regret in the recollection of the past, adds, on
reflection, to the poignancy of the enjoyment; and
the corporeal frame, healthy from its own habits, and
untouched by mental uneasiness, becomes attuned to
sensations of happiness, such as almost lift it above
humanity !
I am as sure, as I am of tiny human truth, that
grandeur and ambition at the very moment of attain-
ing their utmost wishes, never felt pleasures, which,
even in a worldly point'of view, could bear a com-
parison with these cheap and innocent occupations !
Occupations, in the power of thousands, and tens of
thousands, who desert them for the paths of bitter-
ness, disappointment, disgrace, crime, and eternal
misery !
But, alas ! the rarest of all earthly attainments is
content! It seems to be one of the most radical
defects of our frail nature. We cannot bear to see
our neighbours mounted over our heads ; we cannot
bear to see bloated greatness look down upon us with
neglect and scorn; when we ought to consider the
robe of office that covers the insignificant, and the
coronet which encircles the brows of the weak, as
nothing more than the fool’s cloak and cap, which
point him out more distinctly to the contempt of the
world. It must be confessed, indeed, that there are
times, when the best regulated minds cannot entirely
restrain their indignation on this subject. Some men,
even where they have been blessed with native genius,
have uniformly been inebriated with the fumes of
sudden prosperity, and belied the honourable expecta-
tions, which they had raised. In truth, they are so
engrossed with themselves, that they have no con-
ception of any pretensions but their own. But these
circumstances, though they may palliate, can by no
means justify, the disturbance of that peace of mind,
which becomes true wisdom, and true virtue!
There is, however, a species of celebrity, which it
is not unbecoming a well-attempered disposition to
seek. I mean the fame, which is merited by emi-
nence in literature; more especially by the sublime
efforts of poetry. This pursuit is not inconsistent
with that station and those habits, which Martial de-
scribes as affording the best probability of happiness
here ; but, on the contrary, would be most cherished
by them. Anxieties never cease to embitter the
pillow of greatness; a large retinue, a crowd of de-
pendents, surround it with intrigues and troubles;
calumny, envy, and malice are constantly at work ;
luxury enfeebles the constitution ; idleness weakens
the mind ; and -while all in this world appears but the
vanity of vanities, the hopes of the next grow fainter
and fainter, for the sake of delusions, from which
the unhappy victim is yet too feeble to extricate
himself.


O how I sigh for the enviable state, so beautifully
delineated by the poet ; and in the first place
“ Lis nunquam, toga rara, mens quieta;”
that toga , from which I turn with such unfeigned
abhorrence -, which covers a heart, so restless, so
feverish, so artificial; and is surmounted by a head so
full of quips, and quirks, and sophistry, and so occu-
pied in groveling labours, when it might aspire to
speculations which would exalt it in the ranks of in-
tellectual existence ! To behold a crowd of lawyers,
in a narrow and heated court, breathing pestilence and
poison, with wan looks, sallow cheeks, and distracted
countenances, insisting with artificial, energy on some
technical nonsense subversive of wisdom, .justice, and
equity, is a spectacle, from which I early fled with
unconquerable disgust. What wise man would for a
moment exchange for it the lot of the poor and un-
cultivated ploughman, whom I have heard, in the
exuberance of his heartfelt joy, make the echoes re-
bound with his voice, as I have seen him, in a cold
drizzling morning of December, striking his furrow in
distant fields, far amid solitary woodlands, and remote
from all that is deemed the gaiety of life!
The heart, that has lost its zest for the scenery of
nature, that is untouched by the simplest pleasures,
however Harsh the designation may depraved !
A walk, a ride, in the open air, at a distance from
towns, and a return to the most unostentatious cottage,
where only competence, and cleanliness, and peace
preside, offers to a virtuous bosom the utmost grati-
fication of which we are capable, except what may
arise from the retrospect of a duty performed, or a
benefit conferred. — Sir Egerton Brydges.
History.
ANCIENT HISTORY-. SECTION XI.
OF THE STATE OF THE PERSIAN EMPIRE, AND ITS HIS-
TORY DOWN TO THE WAR WITH GREECE.
1. The first empire of the Assyrians ended under
Sardanapalus, and three monarchies arose from its
ruins, Nineveh, Babylon, and the kingdom of the
Medes.
2. The history of Babylon and of Nineveh is very
imperfectly known. The Medes, hitherto indepen-
dent tribes, were united under a monarchy by De-
joces, a haughty and despotic prince. He left the
crown to his son Phraortes, who. conquered Persia,
and subdued a great part of Asia ; but was himself
vanquished by Nebuchodonoser I. king of Assyria,
made prisoner, and put to death. Cyaxares, the
son and successor of Phraortes, in alliance with Na-
bopolassar, king of Babylon, besieged Nineveh, de-
stroyed that splendid city, and divided the kingdom
between them. Nabuchodonoser 11. the son of Nabo-
polassar, led the Jews into captivity, took Jerusalem
and Tyre, and subdued Egypt.
3. The history of Cyrus is involved in great un-
certainty ; nor is it possible to reconcile or apply to
one man the different accounts given of him by He-
rodotus, Ctesias, and Xenophon. Succeeding his
father Cambyses in the throne of Persia, and his
uncle Cyaxares in the sovereignty of the Medes, he
united these empires, vanquished the Babylonians
and Lydians, subjected the greatest part of the Lesser
Asia, and made himself master of Syria and Arabia.
4. He was succeeded by his son Cambyses, dis-
tinguished only as a tyrant and a madman.
5. After the death of Cambyses, Darius, the son of
Hystaspes, was elected sovereign of Persia, a prince
of great enterprise and ambition. Unfortunate in
a rash expedition against the Scythians, he projected
and achieved the conquest of India, which was made
the twentieth province of the Persian empire. Inflated
with success, he now meditated an invasion of Greece,
and cordially entered into the views of Hippias, who
sought by his means to regain the sovereignty of
Athens.
6. Government , Manners , Laws, fyc. of the Ancient
Persians. —The government of Persia was an absolute
monarchy ; the will of the sovereign being subject to
no control, and his person revered as sacred ; yet the
education bestowed by those monarchs on their chil-
dren, was calculated to inspire every valuable quality
of a sovereign.
The ancient Persians in general bestowed the
utmost attention on the education of youth. Children
until the age of five, were exclusively under the
tuition of their mothers, but after that age they were
committed to the care of the Magi, the priests or minis-
ters of the national religion, for the improvement of
their mind and morals. They were trained at the
same time to every manly exercise. The sacred books
of the Zendavesta promised to every worthy parent,
the imputed merit and reward of all the good actions
of his children.
7. Luxurious as they were in after times, the early
Persians were distinguished for their temperance,
bravery, and virtuous simplicity of manners. They
were all trained to the use of arms ; and in time of
war, every male capable of bearing arms was obliged,
under pain of death, to attend the monarch :n the
field. Hence those immense undisciplined armies
which almost exceed belief. In fight, the ancient
Persians displayed great personal courage. The
custom of the w T omen following their armies to the
field, erroneously attributed to effeminacy, was a
remnant of barbarous manners.
8. The kingdom of Persia was divided into several
provinces, each under a Governor or satrap, who re-
ceived his instructions immediately from the prince,
and was obliged at stated times to give an account of
his administration. To facilitate this intercourse
between the provinces and the capital, regular cou-
riers, or posts, were established in the time of Cyrus;
which is the first time we hear of them being men-
tioned, and they were not introduced into the western
parts of the world until a late period. The prince,
at stated times, visited his provinces either in person,
or by his commissioners, correcting all abuses, easing
the burdens of the oppressed, and encouraging agri-
culture and the practice of the useful arts. The laws
of Persia were mild and equitable, and the utmost
purity was observed in the administration of justice.
9. The religion of the ancient Persians is of great
antiquity. It is conjectured that there were two
Zoroasters; the first the founder of this ancient reli-
gion, and of whom are recorded miracles and pro-
phesies ; the second a reformer of that religion,
contemporary with Darius the son of Hystaspes. The
Zendavesta, or sacred book, compiled by the former,
was improved and purified by the latter. It has been
translated into French by M. Anquetil de Perron, and
appears to contain, amidst a mass of absurdity, some


sublime truths, and excellent precepts of morality.
The theology of the Zendavesta is founded on the
doctrine of two opposite principles, a good and an
evil, Ormusd and Ahriman, eternal beings, who
divide between them the government of the universe,
and whose warfare must endure till the end of 12,000
years, when the good will finally prevail over the
evil. A separation Avill ensue of the votaries of each *.
the just shall be admitted to the immediate enjoyment
of paradise; the wicked, after a limited purification
by fire, shall ultimately he allowed to partake in the
blessings of eternity. Ormusd is to be adored through
the medium of his greatest works, the sun, moon, and
stars. The fire, the symbol of the sun, the air, the
earth, the water, have their subordinate worship.
The morality of the Zendavesta is best known from
its abridgement the Sadder, compiled about three
centuries ago by the modern Guebres. It inculcates
a chastened species of Epicurism ; allowing a free
indulgence of the passions, while consistent with the
welfare of society. It prohibits equally intemperance
and ascetic mortification. It recommends, as precepts
of religion, the cultivation of the earth,' the planting
of fruit trees, the destruction of noxious animals, the
bringing water to a barren land.
10. Such were the ancient Persians. But their
national character had undergone a great change
before the period of the war with Greece. At this
time they were a degenerate and corrupted people.
Athens had recently thrown off the yoke of the Pisis*
fcratidae, and highly valued her new liberty. Sparta,
in the ardour of patriotism, forgot all jealousy of her
rival state, and cordially united in the defence of
their common country. The Persians, in this contest,
had no other advantage than that of numbers, an
unequal match for superior heroism and military
skill.
THE INDIAN WIFE.
A TALE,
BY MRS. CHILD.
Tahmiroo was the daughter of a powerful chieftain of the
Sioux American Indians, and she was the only being ever
known to turn the relentless old man from a savage purpose.
Something of this influence was owing to her infantile beauty,
but more to the gentleness of which that beauty was the
emblem. Hers was a species of loveliness rare among Indian
girls. Her figure had the flexile grace so appropriate to pro-
tected and dependent women in refined countries ; her ripe
pouting lip, and dimpled cheek, wore the pleading air of
aggrieved childhood ; and her dark eye had such an habitual
expression of timidity and fear, that the Young Sioux called
her the “ Startled Fawn.” I know not whether her father’s
broad lands, or her own appealing beauty, was the most
powerful cause of her admiration ; but certain it is, Tah-
miroo was the unrivalled belle of the Sioux. She was a crea-
ture all formed for love. Her downcast eye, her trembling lip,
and her quiet submissive motion, all spoke its language ; yet
various young chieftains had in vain sought her affections, and
when her father urged her to strengthen his power by an alli-
ance, she answered him only by her tears.
This state of things continued until 1765, when a company
of French traders came to reside there, for the sake of de-
riving profit from the fur trade. Among them was Florimond
de Ranee, a young indolent Adonis, whom pure ennui had led
from Quebec to the Falls of St. Anthony. His fair, round
face, and studied foppery of dress, might have done little
towards gaining the heart of the gentle Sioux ; but there was
a deference and courtesy in his manner, which the Indians
never pay woman ; and Talimiroo’s deep sensibilities were
touched by it. A more careful arrangement of her rude dress,
and anxiety to speak his language fluently, and a close ob-
servance of his European customs, soon betrayed the subtle
power which was fast making her its slave. The ready vanity
of the Frenchman quickly perceived it. At first he encouraged
it with that sort of undefined pleasure which man always feels
in awakening strong affection in the hearts of even the most
insignificant. Then the idea that, though an Indian, she was
a princess, and that her father’s extensive lands on the Mis-
souri were daily becoming of more consequence to his ambi-
o us nation, led him to think of marriage with her as a desi-
rable object. His eyes and his manner had said this, long
before the old chief began to suspect it; and he allowed the
wily Frenchman to twine himself almost as closely around his
heart, as he had around the more yielding soul of his darling
child. Though exceedingly indolent by nature, Florimond de
Ranee had acquired skill in many graceful acts, which excited
the wonder, of the savages.
He fenced well enough to foil the most expert antagonist.
and in hunting, his rifle was sure to carry death to the game.
These accomplishments, and the facility with which his pliant
nation conform to the usages of every country, made him a
universal favourite; and, at his request, he was formally
adopted as one of the tribe. But, conscious as he was of his
power, it was long before he dared to ask for the daughter of
the haughty chief. When he did make the daring proposition,
it was received with a still and terrible wrath, that might well
fright him from his purpose. Rage showed itself only in the
swelling veins and clenched hand of the old chief.
With the boasted coldness and self-possession of an Indian,
he answered, “ there are Sioux girls enough for the poor
pale faces that come among us. A king’s daughter weds the
son of a king. Eagles must sleep in an eagle’s nest ”
In vain Tahmiroo knelt and supplicated. In vain she pro-
mised Florimond de Ranee would adopt all his enmities and
all his friendships; that in hunting, qnd in war, he would be
an invaluable treasure. The chief remained inexorable. Then
Tahmiroo no longer joined in the dance, and the old man
noticed that her rich voice was silent when he passed her
wigwam. The light of her beauty began to fade, and the
bright vermilion current, which mantled under her brown
cheek, became sluggish and pale. The languid glance she cast
on the morning sun and the bright earth, entered into her
father’s soul. He could not see his beautiful child thus
gradually wasting away. He had long averted his eyes when-
ever he saw Florimond de Ranee; but one day, when he crossed
his hunting path, he laid his hand on his shoulder, and pointed
to Tahmiroo’s dwelling. Not a word was spoken. The proud
old man and the blooming lover entered it together. Tahmiroo
was seated in the darkest corner of the wigwam, her head lean-
ing on her hand, her basket-work tangled beside her, and a
bunch of flowers, the village maidens had brought her, scat-
tered and withering at her feet.
The chief looked upon her with a vehement expression of
love, which none but stern countenances can wear. “ Tah-
miroo,” he said in a subdued tone, “ go to the wigwam of the
stranger, that your father may again see you love to look on-
the rising sun, and the opening flowers.” There was mingled
joy and modesty in the upward glance of the “ Startled Fawn”
of the Sioux ; and when Florimond de Ranee saw the light of
her mild eye, suddenly and timidly veiled by its deeply-fringed
lid, he knew that he had lost none of his power.
The marriage song was soon heard in the royal wigwam, and
the young adventurer became the son of a king.
Months and years passed on, and found Tahmiroo the same


devoted submissive being. Her husband no longer treated her
with the uniform gallantry of a lover. He was not often harsh,
but he adopted something,of the coldness and indifference of
the nation he had joined. Tahmiroo sometimes wept in secret;
but so much of fear had lately mingled with her love, that she
carefully concealed her grief from him who had occasioned it.
When she watched his countenance, with that pleading inno-
cent look which had always characterized her beauty, she some-
times would obtain a glance such as he had .given her in her
former days ; and then her heart would leap like a frolicsome
lamb, and she would live cheerfully on the remembrance of
that smile, through many wearisome days of silence and neglect.
Never was woman, in her heart-breaking devotedness, satisfied
with such slight testimonials of love, as was this gentle Sioux
girl. If Florimond chose to fish, she would herself ply the oar,
rather than he should suffer fatigue; and the gaudy canoe her
father had given her, might often be seen gliding down the
stream, while Tahmiroo dipped her oar in unison with her soft
rich voice, and the indolent Frenchman lay sunk in luxurious
repose. She had learned his religion ; but for herself she never
prayed. The cross he had given her was always raised in sup-
plication for him ; and if he but looked unkindly on her, she
kissed it, and invoked its aid, in agony of soul. She fancied
(he sound of his native land might be dear to him ; and she
studied his language with a patience and perseverance to which
the savage has seldom been known to submit. She tried to
imitate the dresses she had heard him describe ; and if he
looked with a pleased eye on any ornament she wore, it was
always reserved to welcome his return. Yet, for all this lavish-
ness of love, she asked but kind approving looks, which cost
the giver nothing. Alas, for the perverseness of man, in
scorning the affection he ceases to doubt! The little pittance
of love for which poor Tahmifoo’s heart yearned so much, was
seldom given. Her soul was a perpetual prey to anxiety and
excitement; and the quiet certainty of domestic bliss was never
her allotted portion. There were, however, two beings on
whom she could pour forth her whole flood of tenderness,
without reproof or disappointment. She had given birth to a
son and daughter of uncommon promise. Victoire, the eldest,
had her father’s beauty, save in the melting dark eye, with its
plaintive expression, and the modest drooping of its silken
lash. Her cheeks had just enough of the Indian hue to give
them a warm, rich colouring; and such was her early matu-
rity, that at thirteen years of age, her tall figure combined the
graceful elasticity of youth, with the majesty of womanhood.
She had sprung up at her father’s feet, with the sudden luxu-
riance of a tropical flower; and her matured loveliness aroused
all the dormant tenderness and energy within him. It was
with mournful interest he saw her leaping along the chase,
with her mother’s bounding, sylph-like joy; and he would sigh
deeply when he observed her oar rapidly cutting the waters of
the Missouri, while her boat flew over the surface of the river
like a wild bird in sport—and the gay young creature would
wind among the eddies, or dart forward with her hair stream-
ing on the wind, and her lips parted with eagerness. Tali-
miroo did not understand the nature of his emotions. She
thought, in the simplicity of her heart, that silence and sadness
were the natural expressions of a white man’s love ; but when
he turned his restless gaze from his daughter to her, she met
an expression which^ troubled her. Indifference had changed
into contempt; and woman’s soul, whether in the drawing-
room or in the wilderness, is painfully alive to the sting of
scorn. Sometimes her placid nature was disturbed by a strange
jealousy of her own .child. “ I love Yictoire only because she
is the daughter of Florimond,” thought ske ; “and why, oh!
why, does he not love me for being the mother of Victoire V*
It was tao evident that de Rauce wished his daughter to be
estranged from her mother and her mother’s people. With all
members of the tribe, out of his own family, he sternly forbade
her having any intercourse ; and even there he kept her con-
stantly employed in taking dancing lessons from himself, and
obtaining various branches of learning from an old Catholic
priest, whom he had solicited to reside with him for that pur-
pose. But this kind of life was irksome to the Indian girl,
and she was perpetually escaping the vigilance of her father,
to try her arrow in the woods, or guide her pretty canoe over
the waters. De Ranee had long thought it impossible to gra-
tify his ambitious views for his daughter without removing
her from the attractions of her savage home ; and each day’s
experience convinced him more and more of the truth of this
conclusion.
To favour his project, he assumed an affectionate manner
towards his wife ; for he well knew that one look or word of
kindness would at any time win back all her love. When the
deep sensibilities of her warm heart were roused, he would ask
for leave to sell her lands; and she, in her prodigality of ten-
derness, would have given him anything, even her own life*
for such smiles as he then bestowed. The old chief was dead,
and there was no one to check the unfeeling rapacity of the
Frenchman. Tract after tract of Tahmiroo’s valuable land
was sold, and the money remitted to Quebec, where he in-
tended to convey his children, on pretence of a visit, but in
reality with the firm intent of never again beholding his de-
serted wife.
A company of Canadian traders chanced to visit the Falls
of St. Anthony just at this juncture, and Florimond de Ranee
took the opportunity to apprise Tahmiroo of his intention to
educate Yictoire. She entreated with all the earnestness of a
mother’s eloquence ; but she pled in vain. Victoire and her
father joined the company of traders on their return to Canada.
Tahmiroo knelt, and fervently besought that she might accom-
pany them. She would stay out of sight, she said ; they should
not be ashamed of her among the great white folks of the east;
and if she could but live where she could see them every day,
she should die happier.
“ Ashamed of you ! and you the daughter of a Sioux king!”
exclaimed Yictoire proudly, and with a natural impulse of
tenderness she fell on her mother’s neck and wept.
“Victoire, *tis time to depart,” said her father, sternly.
The sobbing girl tried to release herself, but she could not.
Tahmiroo embraced her with the energy of despair; for, after
all her doubts and jealousies, Victoire was the darling child of
her bosom—she was so much the image of Florimond when
he first said he loved her,
“Woman! let her go!” exclaimed De Ranee, exasperated
by the length of the parting scene. Tahmiroo raised her eyes
anxiously to his face, and she saw that his arm was raised to
strike her.
“ I am a poor daughter of the Sioux ; oh! why did you
marry me ?” she exclaimed, in a tone of passionate grief.
“ For your father’s land,” said the Frenchman, coldly.
This was the drop too much. Poor Tahmiroo, with a piercing
shriek, fell on the earth, and hid her face in the grass. She
knew not how long she remained there. Her highly-wrought
feelings had brought on a dizziness of the brain, and she was
conscious only of a sensation of sickness, accompanied by the
sound of receding voices. When she recovered, she found
herself alone with Louis, her little boy, then about six years
old. The child had wandered there after the traders had de-
parted, and having in vain tried to waken his mother, ( he laid
himself down by her side, and slept on his bow and arrows.
From that hour Tahmiroo was‘changed.
Her quiet submissive air gave place to a stern and lofty
manner ; and she, who had always been so gentle, became as


bitter and implacable as the most blood-thirsty of her tribe.
In little Louis all the strong feelings of her soul were centred ;
but even her affection for him was characterized by a strange,
unwonted fierceness. Her only care seemed to be to make
him like his grandfather, and to instil a deadly hatred of
white men. The boy learned his lessons well. He was the
veriest little savage that ever let fly an arrow. To his mother
alone he yielded anything'like submission ; and the Sioux were
proud to hail the haughty child as their future chieftain.
Such was the aspect of things on the shores of the Missouri,
when Florimond de Ranee came among them, after an absence
of three years. He was induced to make this visit, partly
from a lingering curiosity to see his boy, and partly from the
hope of obtaining more land from the yielding Tahmiroo. He
affected much contrition for his past conduct, and promised to
return with Victoire before the year expired. Tahmiroo met
him with the most chiHing indifference, and listened to him
with a vacant look, as if she heard him not.
It was only when he spoke to her boy that he could arouse
her from this apparent lethargy. On this subject she was all
suspicion. She had a sort of undefined dread that he, too,
would be carried away from her; and she watched over him
like a she-wolf, when her young is in danger. Her fears were
not unfounded; for De Ranee did intend, by demonstrations of
fondness, and glowing descriptions of Quebec, to kindle in the
mind of his son a desire to accompany him.
Tahmiroo thought the hatred of white men, which she had
had so carefully instilled, would prove a sufficient shield ; but
many weeks had not elapsed before she saw that Louis was
fast yielding himself up to the fascinating power which had
enthralled her own youthful spirit. With this discovery came
horrible thoughts of vengeance,' and more than once she had
nearly nerved her soul to murder the father of her son ; but
she could not. Something in his features still reminded her
of the devoted young Frenchman, who had carried her quiver
through the woods, and kissed the mocassin he had stooped to
lace ; and she could not kill him.
The last cutting blow was soon given to the heart of the
Indian wife. Young Louis, full of boyish curiosity, expressed
a wish to go with his father, though he at the same time pro-
mised a speedy return. He always had been a stubborn boy,
and she felt now as if her worn-out spirit would vainy con-
tend against his wilfulness. With that sort of resigned stupor
which often indicates approaching insanity, she yielded to his
request; exacting, however, a promise that he would sail a
few miles down the Mississippi with her the day before his
-departure.
The clay arrived. Florimond de Ranee was at a distance
on business. Tahmiroo decked herself in the garments and
jewels she had worn on the day of her marriage, and selected
the gaudiest wampum belts for the little Louis.
“ Why do you put these on ?” said the boy.
“ Because Tahmiroo will no more see her son in the land of
Sioux,” said she, mournfully, “ and when her father meets her
in the Spirit Land, he will know the beads he gave her.”
She took the wondering boy by the hand, and led him to
the water side. There lay the canoe her father had given her
when she left him for “ the wigwam of the stranger.” It
was faded and bruised now, and so were all her hopes. She
looked back on the hut where she had spent her brief term of
wedded happiness, and its peacefulness seemed a mockery of
her misery. And was she—the lone, the wretched, the des-
perate, and deserted one—was she the “Startled Fawn” of
the Sioux, for whom contending chiefs had asked in vain?
The remembrance of all her love and all her wrongs came up
before her memory, and death seemed more pleasant to her
than the gay dance she once loved so well. But then her
eye rested on her boy—and, O God! with what an agony of
love! It was the last vehement struggle of a soul all formed
for tenderness. “We will go to the Spirit Land together,”
she exclaimed ; “ he cannot come there to rob me!”
She took Louis in her arms, as if he had been a feather,
and springing into the boat, she guided it towards the Falls
of St: Anthony.
•‘Mother, mother! the canoe is going over the rapids!’
screamed the frightened child. “My father stands on the
waves and beckons!” she said. The boy looked at the horribly
fixed expression of her face, and shrieked aloud for help.
The boat went over the cataract.
Louis de Ranee was seen no more. He sleeps with the
“ Startled Fawn” of the Sioux, in the waves of the Mississippi!
THE ART OF PRINTING.
The exceedingly ingenious invention of printing with metal
types, on paper, was first brought to light in Germany, a
country lying near the heart of the Continent of Europe, and
most remarkable in the history of mankind for having furnished
not only this, but some other very important improvements in
the mechanical arts. Until this invention took place, in the
course of the fifteenth century, no nation in the world possessed
a distinct knowledge of its neighbours, or was even acquainted
with its own internal properties. All communications had to .
be effected by means of writing, or by special messengers, and
the knowledge gleaned by one generation ran always a risk of
being lost to those who came after it, for want of a permanent
medium of communication. To investigate properly, says
Hansard, the origin of printing, it is necessary to carry our
research to a period far more remote than, that at which the
art became applicable to the making of books. T’he early
inhabitants of the earth would naturally desire to perpetuate
their useful discoveries, as well as the important events of their
time ; it may be therefore fairly presumed, that they had some
mode of communicating their ideas to succeeding generations
before the invention of an alphabet. The scanty traditions
received concerning the antediluvians do not enable us to
come to any determination relative to the proficiency in com-
municating the transactions of their time ; whether, therefore,
they employed stamps of any kind, or had any means whatever
of transmitting knowledge, except by oral tradition, we have
neither history nor tradition to inform us. But that period
which immediately followed the deluge, and which some chro-
nologers have termed the second age of the world, affords con-
vincing proofs of the art of forming impressions being then
practised; and most probably with a view to promote science
—to inculcate special facts—and as a general means of pre-
serving to posterity useful memorials. Purposes such as these,
it is reasonable to conclude, were contemplated by the ancient
Chaldeans when they stamped, or printed, their tiles or bricks
with various figures, hieroglyphics, or inscriptions, in some
instances, these ancient specimens seem to have been sun-
baked ; yet, for tbe most part, they appear to have been kiln-
burnt to a most surprising degree of hardness, even to partial
vitrification. Of such materials was built the original city and
celebrated tower of Babylon ; and although a period of four
thousand years has rolled away since the construction of the
superb metropolis, whose name they bear still, even to the
present day do the Babylonian bricks, which have supplied
the antiquary and orientalist with so many curious subjects for
reflection and discussion, continue to be found. The great
city, “ whose towers, whose temples, and whose palaces, were
built with brick dried in the sun, or baked in the furnace,”
and whose walls were ornamented with animals modelled to
resemble life, richly painted in their natural colours upon the
bricks of which they were composed, and into which they were
afterwards burnt'—what inexhaustible emotions must the spec-
tacle of operose splendour presented by the pile, at the zenith
of its glory, have excited ! And what must reasoning creatures
think'of human grandeur, looking now at the bald and desolate
site that once boasted such a display of sumptuous edifices—
such a gorgeous scene of civic ostentation ! — Chambers' Journal.
(To be continued.)
Varieties.
Pretty Good.—Why are teeth like verbs ? Because they
are regular, irregular, and defective.


Love. —“ Was it not you, Guido, who were telling me of a
young maiden, whose lover, in some sudden passion of jealousy
and despair, had taken the vows at La Trappe, and who, dis-
guising her sex, followed him to his gloomy retreat, wore the
Labi', observed the ordinances of that mournful body, and
preserved her secret ’till death ? Of all the many instances of
woman’s strong and enduring afiection, none ever produced
upon me an impression so forcible. Think of a young and
delicately-nurtured female, giving up, not only the world, wi f h
its vanities, and its pleasures, but all comfort, all companion-
ship, all feminine employment, not denied to a nun of the
strictest order. She renounced them all to live in seclusion,
silence, and perpetual dread ; for what but a cruel death could
have awaited her had her secret been discovered, save when
dying ? And this melancholy, this isolated existence was
dragged on unsupported by any hope, for no change of circum-
stance could affect her position, and unsoothed by the thought
that her great devotion was held precious by him for whom it
was exercised. Not one of the ordinary motives—the vanity
or the selfishness which people call by the name of love—
actuated her through this long trial. She had everything to
fear, and nothing to expect. What creation of the poet ever
exceeded this terrible reality of love sepulchred in this
living tomb ! I often marvel to myself what were her feelings
when a shadow fell across the path, and, she looked upon one
of those shrouded and flitting shapes, and dared not ask if the
cowl hid the face which she most desired to see! and yet this
went on for years !” “ Enough, my sister !” exclaimed Guido,
“I do not like to think of it What is this story but another
instance of the cruel fate whose iron rule is over our world ?
The love wasted in this pitiless cloister would have made the
happiness cf a life.”— Francesca Carrara. '
Absurdities. —To attempt to borrow money on the plea of
extreme poverty. —To make yourself generally disagreeable,
and wonder no one will visit you, unless they gain some pal-
pable advantage by it—To sit shivering in the cold, because
you won’t have a fire till November.—To suppose the reviewers
generally read more than the title-page of the works they praise
or condemn.—To keep your clerks on miserable salaries, and
wonder at them robbing you.—Not to go to bed when tired and
sleepy, because “ it is not bed time.” —To make your servants
tell lies for you, and afterwards be angry because they tell lies
for themselves. —To tell your own secrets, and believe other
people will keep them. —To render a man a service voluntarily,
and expect him to be grateful for it. —To expect to make
people honest by hardening them in Jail, and afterwards send-
ing them adrift without the means of getting work.—To fancy
a thing is cheap, because a low price is asked for it.—To say
a man is charitable, because he subscribes to an hospital.—To
arrive at the age of fifty, and be surprised at any vice, folly, or
absurdity your fellow-creatures may be guilty of.—To vote for
a candidate at an election, because he shakes hands with your
wife, and admires the baby.
Eating and Drinking. —lt will rather take the reader by
surprise to be told, that in a life of sixty-five years’ duration,
with a moderate daily allowance of mutton for instance, he will
have consumed a flock of three hundred and fifty sheep ; and
that altogether, for dinner alone, adding to his mutton a
seasonable allowance of potatoes and vegetables, with a pint of
wine daily for thirty years of this period, above thirty tons of
solids and liquids must have passed through his stomach.
Books. —Silent companions, who often speak most elo-
quently.
How to Learn English. —A servant girl in Edinburgh,
who spoke Scotch so broadly—though a native of Ayrshire,
the vernacular Scotch of which is admitted to be purer than
that of any other in Scotland —as at times hardly to be com-
prehended, even by her mistress, on being asked how she con-
trived to make herself understood when in service in England,
where she had previously been, replied—“Ou, it’s quite ;
ye’ve naething to do but lea’ve out a’ the R’s, and gie the words
a bit chow in the middle.”
A Sketch on the Road. — It is a treat to see Prudery get
into an omnibus. Of course she rejects the hand that is held
out to her by male civility. It might give her a squeeze.—
Neither does she take the first vacant place; but looks out for
a seat, if possible, between an innocent little girl and an old
woman. In the mean time the omnibus moves on. Prudery
totters —makes a snatch at Civility’s nose —or his neck —or
anywhere —and missing her hold, rebounds to the other side of
the vehicle, and plumps down in a strange gentleman’s lap.—
True modesty would have escaped all these indecorums.
“ Come dwell with me!” as the shark said when he swallowed
the ca .in-boy.
Mechanism of a Piano-forte. —We find that in one of
the most improved six-and-a-half octave piano-fortes, the
mechanism connected with the “ action” consistsof about three
thousand eight hundred pieces of ivory, ebony, cedar, sycamore,
lime-tree, mahogany, beef-wood, oak, pine, iron, brass, lead,
cloth, felt, leather, and vellum. Every one of these has to be
fashioned with the most scrupulous exactness, and as scrupu-
lously adjusted to its place. Many of the pieces are not more
than a quarter of an inch square, some even less. The qua-
lities of all the varieties of w r ood are closely-studied, in order
to determine their peculiar aptitude for the different parts.—
One kind is preferred because slender rods made of it will not
warp ; another kind because the grain is straight; a third
because it is hard and smooth; a fourth because it is soft and
smooth, and so on. Some of the rods are as much as three
feet long, and only a sixth or a seventh of an inch in thickness.
Legal Eloquence. — A young backwoods lawyer lately
concluded his argument in a case of quare clausum fregit with
the following sublime burst: —“ If, gentlemen of the jury, the
defendant’s hogs are permitted to roam at large over the fair
fields of my client with impunity, and without pokes—then,
yes, then have our forefathers fought, and bled, and died in
vain !”
The Way of Women. —In the Newcastle market, a lady
asked the price of a goose. “ Four and three-pence,” said the
woman at the stall. The rejoinder, of course, was, “ I will
give you four shillings.” “Very well,” said the woman : you
may ha’e’t for four ; for, you see, 1 clapped t’ threepence on,
because I knaw’d you’d want summat off. Aw always find
that the way o’ women is, to hev threepence off the gyuse, and
a penny off t’ giblets—an’ se aw axes accordin’ly !” Shop-
keepers, less candid than the goose-merchant, are not in the
habit of confessing their practices; but we think we may ven-
ture to assert, that when they have to deal with ladies who
“ want summat off,” they take care to “ ax aceordin’ly.”—
Heber, the celebrated book-buyer, being asked by a friend if
he did not receive good discounts on making his purchases,
replied, “ No, sir! it is an absurd system—a discount will only
answer once .—at the second and all future purchases, the
tradesman, in self-defence, will lay something on, to be prepared
for your demand.— Gateshead Observer.
Steam Boat Incident. —The following incident is related
in the Buffalo Commercial Advertiser, as having occurred on
Lake Erie, during the tremendous gale which swept over it, in
the month of November last. In that fearful night, the steam-
boat Constitution , Captain Appleby, was out amidst the terrors
of the gale. By the glimpses caught at intervals, when the
fitful storm for a moment broke away, the anxious and watchful
commander was made aware of the critical situation of his
boat, which was rapidly drifting in, under the hurricane power
| of the g. 'e, towards a dangerous reef, from which escape would
j have be-: n impossible. He went directly to the engineer, and
ordered on “ more steam.” The reply of the engineer was,
that there was already as much on as the boilers could bear
with safety. Again did the Captain seek the deck, to see if
lis ibouring boat was making headway. He explained to
the engineer, their hazardous situation, and told him that all
hope was lost, if no more headway could he gained; but left
the engineer to use his own discretion in the crisis. A
moment of reflection and the decision was made. He coolly
ordered the heads of two barrels of oil to be broken in, and the
furnaces were rapidly fed with wood dipped in the highly infla-
mable liquid, while two men, with ladles, dashed the oil into
the flames.' The intense heat which these combustibles
created, generated steam with the rapidity of lightning, and
soon the resistless power forced up the safety valve, and issued
forth with tremendous violence, its sharp hissing heard above
the wild uproar of the waters and the storm. With a desperate
and determined courage, which equalled the most daring
heroism that the page of history has ever recorded, the engi-
neer sat cloion upon the lever of the safety valve , to confine and
raise the steam to the necessary power required to propel the
boat against the storm! In this awful situation, he calmly
remained, until the prodigious efforts of the engine had forced
the vessel a-head, and escaped the threatened danger. This
intrepid act was not a vain-glorious attempt to gain the ap-
plause of a multitude, by fool-hardy exposure of his life in
s< me racing excursion—it wis not the deed of a drunken and
a reckless man, wickedly heedless of those whose lives were
perilled—but it was the self-possessed and determined courage
of one, whose firmness is above all praise.
To kiss ladies’ hands after their lips, is like little boys that
after they eat the apple fall to the paring—out of love they
have to the apple.


The Moralist.
DESIRE AND LOVE.
Beware, young man, beware of the allurements of wantonness,
and let not the harlot tempt thee to her delights.
The madness of desire shall defeat its own pursuits ; from
the blindness of its rage thou shalt rush upon destruction.
Therefore give not up thy heart to her enticements, neither
suffer thy soul to be enslaved by her delusions.
The fountain of health, which must supply the stream of
pleasure, shall quickly be dried up, and every spring of joy
shall be exhausted
In the prime of thy life old age shall overtake thee ; thy sun
shall decline in the morning of thy days.
But when virtue and modesty enlighten her charms, the
lustre of a beautiful woman is brighter than the stars of heaven,
and the influence of her power it is in vain to resist.
The whiteness of her bosom transcendeth the lily ; her smile
is more delicious than a garden of roses.
The innocence of her eye is like that of the turtle; simplicity
and truth dwell in her heart.
The kisses of her mouth are sweeter than honey; the per-
fumes of Arabia breathe from her lips.
Shut not thy bosom to the tenderness of love; the purity of
her flame shall ennoble thy heart, and soften it to receive the
fairest impressions.
MORAL MAXIMS.
ALPHABETICALLY ARRANGED.
No. 13.
Anger is like a river whicii breaks itself upon what it falls.
Angry men seldom want woe.
An honest employment is a most excellent patrimony.
An honest word is better than a careless oath.
A nice wife and a back door often make a rich man poor.
An idle brain is the Devil’s workshop.
An idle head is a box for the wind.
An inquisitive fellow is a spy in disguise.
An intemperate patient makes a cruel doctor.
An irritable and passionate man is a downright drunkard.
An oak is not felled at a stroke.
An obedient wife commands her husband.
1 oung Man, pause, and consider. Thy thoughts are ever
under the inspection of the God of light, of holiness, and of
love. If you were in some assembly, where you observed the
eye of a being fixed upon you :—you knew him not; but from
his supernatural appearance, and other reasons, you believed
that his eye traversed the path that no vulture’s eye hath seen
-—■the whole region of thought and emotion—and that your
destinies were at his disposal. If whithersoever you went, and
however you endeavoured to evade his glance, his eye pursued
you ; and even when you were turned away, and, according
to all the ordinary laws of vision, the thing would be impos-
sible, yet the eye seemed to be constantly before you—its colour
its brightness its expression—its penetrating power, all as
with a living reality, affected and perpetually troubled you.
you conversed with a friend—engaged in your secular em-
ployment-—or retired into your closet, this eye still pursued
you, and presented itself with a full gaze upon you; if when you
slumbered, this eye occupied some conspicuous place in every
dnd Waen y° u aw °ke> even in thedarkness of midnight,
the glare of this eye exceeded the brightness of any star—and
me your opening eye, beaming on you with approbation, or
disßn^ g -° n y ° U f W u h ;—and, though you had no
views of the ultimate design of this unsleeping vigi-
lance over you— y et, the consciousness of many evil tendencies
«nriiv nf f;i pr^ pensu i es ~' and the knowledge of the supernal
IndnrM ° 116 heavenl , y watc her—might have some influence in
mind n f g v° U tc V e g ulate your thoughts in accordance with the
“ C JL f w . hose eye and constant searching you could not
The P eve JrL l? not an empty , picture of the Pagination.
hphWd f w d i 1S u Ver ° n yoUr heart ]t is the reality David
Av scfrit”? Wh-T 16 , ex , c , la i” ed “ Whitller shall Igo from
tnj spirit ? Whither shall I flee from thy presence ?
purely t he darkness andthe ]ight are both Like to th ee .„
Zntm CJZ / and /t eds hef ° re the Seeing spirit. And
SParcbetb t? h f ° rmed eye ’ See ? And shall not he who
closet tra,,sactions ° f ,he raind!
which ru ”' s or
Select Poetry.
THE BLIND MAN’S BRIDE.
BY THE
LION. MRS. NORTON.
Winn first, beloved, in vanished hours
The blind man sought thy love to gain,
They said thy cheek was bright, as flowers
New freshen’d by the summer rain :
They said thy movements, swift yet soft,
Were such as make the winged dove
Seem, ;*s it gently soars aloft,
The image of repose and love.
They told me, too, an eager crowd
Of wooers praised thy beauty rare,
But that thy heart was all too proud
A common love to meet or share.
Ah ! thine was neither pride nor scorn,
But in thy coy and virgin breast
Dwelt preference not of passion born,
The love that hath a holier rest!
Days came and went: —thy step I heard
Pause frequent, as it passed me by;-
Days came and went: —thy heart was stirred
And answer’d to my stifled sigh !
And thou didst make a humble choice,
Content to be the blind man’s bride ;
Who loved thee for thy gentle voice,
And owned no joy on earth beside.
And well by that sweet voice I knew’
(Without the happiness of sight)
Thy years, as yet, were glad and few,
Thy smile most innocently bright:
1 knew how full of love’s own grace
The beauty of thy form must be ;
And fancy idolized the face
Whose loveliness I might not see!
Oh ! happy were those days, beloved !
I almost ceased for light to pine,
When through the summer vales we roved,
Thy fond hand gently linked in mine.
Thy soft “Good night” still sweetly cheered
The unbroken darkness of my doom ;
And thy “ Good morrow, love,” endeared
The sunrise which returned in gloom !
At length, as years rolled swiftly on,
They spoke to me of time’s decay—
Of roses from thy smooth cheek gone,
And ebon ringlets turned to grey.
Ah ! then I blest the sightless eyes
Which could not feel the deepening shade,
Nor watch beneath succeeding skies
• Thy withering beauty faintly fade.
/ saw no paleness on thy cheek,
No lines upon thy forehead smooth, —
But still the blind man heard thee speak,
In accents made to bless and soothe.
Still he could feel thy guiding hand
As through the woodlands wide we ranged,
Still in the summer light could stand,
And know thy heart and voice unchanged.
And still, beloved, till life grows cold
We’ll wander ’neath a genial sky,
And only know that we are old
By counting happy years gone by:
For thou to me art still as fair
As when those happy years began,—
When first thou cam’st to soothe and share
The sorrows of a sightless man !
Old Time, who changes all below,
To wean men gently from the grave,
Hath brought us no increase of woe,
And leaves us all he ever gave :
For I am still a helpless thing
Whose darkened world is cheered by thee
And thou art she whose beauty’s spring
The blind man vainly yearned to see!


Notice.
The Editor does not hold himself responsible for the opinions and
assertions contained in the correspondence and contributions in-
serted in the Colonial Literary Journal.
iSottce to Correspondents.
We admire B.’s sentiments in the lines sent us on “The French
Invasion of Tahiti,” but must decline inserting a poetical
effusion so irregular, and contain sentiments too decidedly
expressed, for a publication of this general nature.
All communications must be addressed to “ The Editor of the
Colonial Literary Journal, General Printing Office, 133,
King-street East," (post paid.}
Notice to Country Subscribers.
Subscribers in the Country are requested to forward their names
and subscriptions to the nearest Agents, where no Agent has,
as yet, been appointed in their immediate neighbourhood; as
the expense of postage of a letter to the Publishers in Sydney,
is a considerable encroachment upon the very slender amount
of a Quarterly Subscription.
Subscribers are informed that as back Nos. cannot go through
the Post, they must inform us by what means the earlier Nos.
are to be forwarded to them without expense to the Publishers.
In answer to complaints of non-delivery of Papers, we can only
say that the Nos. have been regularly inserted in the Post
Office to their respective directions.
ON LIGHT.
Light is an evolution from the sun, light and heat
bearing a very striking resemblance to each other ; they
are both distributed, reflected, absorbed, and trans-
mitted. The science of light and vision is called
Optics. Light is a principle and power in nature.
Vision is the innate sense or capability to behold-the
light. A luminous body is one that shines by its own
light, as the sun, or a fire, which give forth light from
their ow-n heat. Light derived from fire, lamps, &c.,
is always the exhibition of burning gas. The sun is so
very far distant from the earth, that it is not possible
for the human sight to behold, or mind to define,
what is the combustible process which is ever going
on in that vast and sublime sphere. From what has
been discovered it is supposed that the sun itself is an
opaque body, and that the light emitted is rather
from its surrounding atmosphere, than from its centre;
for philosophers have with the aid of very powerful
telescopes been able to discern a darkness sometimes
visible through the brightness, which appears to us,
as spots in the sun ; but this darkness is supposed by
many persons to be the body of the sun, seen through
its atmosphere. Light is always accompanied with
heat, and if the heat accompanying the light were not
absorbed by the earth and radiated back again by
slow degrees, our nights w r ould be intensely cold as
well as dark. All opaque bodies are heated by light.
The earth absorbs light in divers manners, for some
portions of it, and some substances on it, absorb light
—and some others reflect it back. The earth as a
body reflects light to the moon, and the moon reflects
light to the earth. If the earth absorbed all the rays
of light which fell upon it, it would be all blackness,
but because the earth reflects back the sun’s light to
the atmosphere, therefore it is, that we are capable
of seeing every thing around us. The sun is fixed in
space, but like the earth, it revolves round its own
axis. This it accomplishes in the period of 25 days
and 10 hours. Light is sent forth in direct lines,
passing through the atmosphere. Air and water are
transmitters of light, and glass also. Those bodies
which transmit light are said to be transparent : rays
of light pass through them to our eyes, therefore we
see through them.
When the sun shines, if we darken the room, leav-
ing open some small crevice in the window shutter,
we see the straight direction of a ray of light: the ray
will cross the room and rest on the opposite wall, it
cannot go through the wall, because the wall is
bpaque, it is not a transmitter of light, but the small
portion of wall on which the ray rests-will appear bright,
and though in a very feeble measure, will reflect and
send back the light. When a ray of light passes
into a room in the manner described, we see small
portions of matter like dust in the ray, we see these
particles in that space only, because the light not
being diffused through the whole room, the eye is
more capable of discerning that portion which is
brightest; but in reality those particles are at all times
traversing the air unseen by us, when not thus re-
flected to our eyes. The shadows of our persons are
seen when the sun shines, or by candlelight, because
on such occasions we stand between the wall and the
light, therefore the rays of light- that would fall on
the wall are stopped, they cannot pass through us;
all the rays that fall on our persons are arrested in
their passage to the Tvall, and no more, and the wall
being then lighted on all other parts, the darkness or
shadow will necessarily assume the form of the sub-
stance intervening; so that a a shadow is a dark spot
which the rays of light do not reach, because they
cannot pass through the body, neither can they pass
round it, because all light passes in direct lines. —
Every opaque body reflects light, and we see nothing
but reflected light when we look at every thing in
nature that is not a luminous body. Light passing
through the atmosphere is reflected to our eyes from
all the small portions of matter which are floating in
the air, in the same manner as they are reflected from
the dust in the ray of light across the room, besides
which, every object placed before us sends forth rays
of its reflected light to our eyes. Although air and
water are transmitters of light, a dense atmosphere
will not admit it to pass altogether free, some of it is
absorbed, and we have a partial appearance of dark-
ness. It is also supposed that there is perfect darkness
at the lowest depths of the sea. The eye in all
animals is so peculiarly constructed, as to allow the
rays of light to pass through the pupil of the eye and
there reflect back not the rays of light only, but the
image of the object from whence the rays proceed.—
At sunrise and sunset, the rays fall obliquely, and
whenever a ray of light falls obliquely, it becomes
curved in its passage through the atmosphere, for it is
of a very thin and subtle nature, and might, perhaps,
be bent in many directions were it not subject to the
law of attraction. This variation of its course is
called refraction. The power of refraction also occurs
and is made visible to us, when a ray of light falls
obliquely in its passage from one transparent medium
into another, as from air into water. The inclination
of the ray is to pass forward as it were over the sur-
face of the water, but the attraction of the water
overcomes the projectile force with which it was
emitted from the sun. It is the refraction of light
which causes us ’to see a stick or oar in the water
apparently bent. It is also owing to the principle o
refraction that water appears more shallow than it
really is, in appearance, as seen when walking on
the bank side. An example of this refraction is
sometimes shewn as a pastime, thus :—lf y ou P ut a
shilling into an empty basin and then stand at a shoit


distance from it, just far enough to enable you to lose
sight of it, and then let another person fill the basin
with water, you will again see the shilling, although
you have not moved from the position in which you
could not see it before, and the basin wall appear only
half its depth. When you look into the basin and do
not see. the shilling, the reflected rays are turned
upwards and do not meet your eye, but when the
basin is filled with water, the ray becomes refracted
by passing through the water, and thus being bent
aside meets your eye. In this instance you do not
see the shilling in the place it really occupies, but in
the direction of the reflected refracted ray that meets
your eye. All the light which passes from the sun
to us, and other parts of the globe not very near to
the equator, must fall obliquely, and therefore be-
come refracted, consequently we see the sun as we see
the shilling in the water, that is, not in its own real
situation, but in the direction of the refracted rays.
This refraction of light is not only diflicult to under-
stand, but it is also unpleasant, to believe, for in
accordance with this theory we can see nothing in its
real position. Nevertheless it is not more wonderful
than true, and therefore, the importance of it as a fact,
has induced me to explain it minutely, at the risk of
the article being thought monotonous.
B.
PHRENOLOGY.
[For the Colonial Literary Journal.]
No. XI.
Having now shown by a few intances how the
science of Phrenology is verified in the consonance
which the character of Nations bears to their cerebral
developement, I shall proceed to substantiate further
its claims to belief, by examining how far the deve-
lopement of individuals harmonises with their real
character. Before, however, entering upon this
branch of the subject, I shall premise a few general
remarks, showing how the principles of Phrenology
are, and have been, in every age tacitly avowed by
mankind. J
The greatest of all pourtrayers of human nature,
whose developement of brain too corresponded with
his colossal intellect, has spoken of “ foreheads vil-
lainous low ; ’ and if we but consider, we shall be
sensible how frequently we unwittingly estimate cha-
racter on the very principles of Phrenology. Do we
when speaking of a man noted for his genius and
intellect, imagine such a person to be possessed of a
small brain, and a mean insignificant forehead ? Or
when we read of those mighty master minds who shed
an influence on the very age they lived in, swaying
their fellow-men with irresistible power —rising
above the herd of mankind as towers the lofty oak
above the lowly bush-who walked as very gods upon
the earth, can we without doing violence to bur in-
ward sense of propriety, picture such men as possess-
rhn/ . develo Pf > me s t of brain similar to that which
characterizes the idiot? Or can we suppose that a
man remarkable for a noble and expanded brow,
brute^No » a rt an mt6llect scarcel y su P er ior to the
biute. No there is a voice within us that would
condemn such judgment ; there is a principle within
our minds imbibed from, an observation Q P f Nature"
that is repugnant to such ideas; there is in short in
t e breasts of all, of even its most rancorous opponents.
a conviction, whether stifled or not, that Phrenology
has its foundation in Nature, and that its doctrines
are but the echo of her works.
Was it mere chance, I ask, that led great sculptors
and painters in ancient and modern times, to bestow
ou the statues and pictures of persons celebrated for
superiority of intellect, or distinguished virtue, and
with whose cerebral organization they could not
possibly have been acquainted, a developement agree-
ing with .their character ? The noble and capacious
anterior developement which the Greek artists be-
stowed upon their supreme divinity Jupiter, who was
not certainly the beau ideal of a pre-eminently ex-
alted deity, but who was nevertheless famed for
wisdom and intellect, and whose individuality was of
course to them ideal, could not have been the result
of fortuitous circumstances. The perfect form of
head which the immortal artists of the middle ages
have given to their representations of Christ, excelling
especially in the coronal department, and harmoniz-
ing beautifully with the angelic features which we
may suppose to have characterised the divine Saviour,
was the result of something more than mere accident.
The consciousness of propriety in these mighty
masters of the arts suggested such an adaptation of
developement to character—a consciousness implanted
in their minds by extensive observation of nature,
and which rebelled against an incongruity which
would have been perpetrated by an inferior mind—a
consciousness which proves that the principles of
Phrenology were recognised and acquiesced in, long
before that science had seen the light. These are
merely isolated instances, chosen from a multitude of
others that may be consulted by every attentive
inquirer.
As the power of each of the organs is estimated by
its size, modified of course by the particular4empera-
ment accompanying it, so a large head argues the
possession of considerable force of character, Avhether
of a good or bad tendency. The inference then is,
that a man who exerts great influence upon the age
in which he lives, or whose genius bursts through the
fetters which circumstances have bound round him,
must be possessed of an amount of brain absolutely
large. And here how triumphantly can the Phreno-
gist appeal to a thousand proofs, and safely deny the
existence of one solitary example of a man possessed
of a small brain, raising himself from obscurity to
splendid distinction, or subduing those around him
with the might of his intellect. By this, however,
it is not intended to be understood that talents and
superior ability are incompatible with a moderate
brain ; cleverness, indeed, is most frequently found
in conjunction with moderate size of organs and bril-
liant temperament. But that majesty and vastness of
intellect which characterise the man of genius, are
only the result of a developement of the faculties, of
the largest size. Could Cromwell and Buonaparte,
had they been possessed of a mean cerebral develope-
ment and a small amonnt of brain, have raised them-
selves from the depths of obscurity to the very pinnacle
of earthly power and human distinction, and im-
pressed upon all who came within their influence, a
consciousness and awe of their vast and superior
minds? Could they have displayed the qualities of
consummate warriors in the field, and the talents of
profound and sagacious statesmen in the senate
wielding the sword of battle and the sceptre of rule


with the same ability and success ? Could Luther
and Knox, two of the greatest champions of the Re-
formation, have overcome the obstacles and difficul-
ties which bigotry and ignorance threw in their way,
had they not been gifted with a superior organization
and large size of brain Could the immortal Shak-
speare, and the peasant-poet Burns, —the greatest
luminary of intellect almost that ever appeared, and
the tender yet manly heart that beat so impassionedly
beneath the “ hodden grey,” have risen superior to the
disadvantages of a comparatively imperfect education,
and the still greater disadvantages and obstacles
which an uncongenial situation and unfavourable
circumstances treated in their path, as barriers which
inferior souls could never pass, unless they had been
endowed with an organization of brain combining
power of mind and force of character, with the posses-
sion of poetical talents of the highest order ? Assuredly
not; and are not such facts most convincing argu-
ments in favour of the science we uphold ! In every
situation in society, no matter how low. the same rule
will be found to hold true, size of brain constituting
influence and weight, although it may not be in any
particular direction. Here, then, how interesting and
simple a field there is for practical observation to
jj every unprejudiced enquirer after the truth. Let
' him but remark those who exert great power of mind
and weight among their fellows, and consider their
education, temperament, and circumstances affecting
their dispositions, and we rest satisfied that we shall
have gained over another adherent to Phrenology.
ÆNEAS.
MATHEMATICS.
[For the Colonial Literary Journal.]
No. VI.
“ Ingenuas didicisse fideliter artes
Emollit mores
Asperitatis et invidise corrector et irae.”
To have learned the liberal arts thoroughly, softens our manners:
And is a corrector of roughness, envy, and anger.
In the acquirement of the liberal arts man must be
satisfied to labour, for on no other condition is any
earthly blessing bestowed. Nothing that is truly
great —nothing that is truly glorious has ever been
attained or possessed by any except those who have
sought it earnestly, and toiled for it patiently —who
have worked diligently and advanced steadily towards
the goal ever in the mind’s eye, w r hich seems paradoxi-
cally to recede as they decrease their distance; be-
cause they begin, as they advance, to feel their
difficulty and to comprehend the immensity of the
interminable field of knowledge in advance of them.
Yet are they not discouraged, but rather enjoy the
perspective view of the knowledge beyoad their
present attainments, but to which they hope to advance
by means of the lever of perseverance, This is the
path of those only who can devote their full and un-
divided attention to studious pursuits, and to them
alone the higher branches of Mathematics can be a
source of study and delight; therefore we stopped
short on having brought the subject of Geometry to
the threshold, —as it were, —to the book of Euclid,
■which every mechanic ought to be theoretically con-
versant with as well as practically. Our object has
"been simply to consider those portions of Mathema-
tics which ought to be universally studied, and which
are best adapted for general use ; and, further, to
clothe our language in such a simple garb (avoiding
unnecessary technicalities) as to prevent these articles
from being thrown aside as well meant, but not suffi-
ciently interesting to attract the peruser’s attention to
their real important tendency ; but the present exer-
tions, individual and collected, in the good cause of
Education, show us how alive our fellow colonists
are in it, and how fully awara they are of its vital
importance to the mind of man ; the germ of which,
like the unpolished diamond, is hardly distinguished
from grosser matter around ; nothing but its
kindred dust skilfully applied, and by an experienced
workman, can draw forth its latent brilliancy. It
shows us, moreover, that this subject is being duly ap-
preciated, and that any humble effort soever will be
greeted with a kindred spirit and acceptation.
Quiescent Geometry, as we term it for the present,
will therefore give place to what Dr. Wallis terms
the Geometry of motion, alias Mechanics, which
teach the nature of, and the laws which regulate,
motions —the action of force of bodies set in motion,
and the construction of machinery, which enables a
man to raise a greater weight than he otherwise could.
These artificial powers are known under the name of
mechanical powers, six in number, which may be
safely reduced to two.
That the study of this subject, so as to understand
the powers and modes of appliance, would be benefi-
cial to youth there is no one to doubt, and we are of
opinion, that to instruct a person how far his powers
may be available, and how increased by the judicious
application of knowledge, obtained from a careful
study of the science of Mechanics as a discipline
of the mind alone, is sure to produce advantageous
results, and sufficient to recommend it, though inap-
plicable to the immediate purposes of life.
How very exquisite is the mechanism of our frail
bodies; the very passage of this pen over the surface
of our paper proclaims the necessity of understanding
the developement of force on a more extensive scale ,
but now, how accurately poised is the implement of
writing ! how measured and moved in its course, pro-
ducing in minute and exact characters the sentiments
of its director ; but this is only a diminutive glance at
the importance of the study of cause and effect.
The investigations of general mechanics are based
on experience, and are calculated by arithmetic,
geometry, and sometimes algebra.
In tracing the history of this science, we arrive at
the conclusion, that it must have decidedly commenced
with creation itself, for in what state soever man
might be in, he would have a desire or necessity to
move weights superior to his own animal force to is-
lodge ; while revolving this difficulty in his mind, he-
observes a straight pole lying within his reach and
intuitively seizes it for the purpose of applying to the
object which has created his combativeness ; he then
discovers the utility of the lever. Suppose the object
to be situated at the brow of a hill—the inclined
plane is added to the first discovery; time and expe-
rience would very shortly add to these the wheel and
axle, the pulley, the wedge and the screw-which
may, as we have already observed, be reduces to two ,
namely, lever and inclined plane, for the pulley and
wheel are assemblages of levers, and the wedge ana
screw are inclined planes. These simple powers
would suffice in the hands of man to erect the mig i y


tower of Babel—the splendid hanging gardens of
Babylon, and her mighty walls with brazen gates —
the vast pyramids of Egypt, and the massive roofs of
her temples—the mighty tower of the besieger of
Rhodes, and afterwards the towering Colossus erected
at the entrance of its harbour, and other monuments
too numerous to mention. By the aid of these powers,
Archimedes puzzled and baffled the enterprising
valour of the mistress of the world for the space of
three years, but he was finally killed on the storming
of the well-defended Syracuse, by a Roman soldier, at
the age of seventy-five; this great man’s birth occurred
just on Euclid’s demise in 287 b.c.
There is a remarkable apothegm recorded, ascribed
to Archimedes, namely, that if he had only a fulcrum
he could move the world, so convinced was he of the
unlimited power of machinery, and confident in his
abilities to apply these powers.
Tyros read of [this great man’s exploits but to
wonder at them, because they have not the least con-
ception of their actual possibility, nor, generally
speaking, the slightest idea of mechanical powers.—
These things ought not to be, for a knowledge of the
theory of mechanics should be conveyed to youth at
an early age, because- they lead to practical results
constantly before their eyes, and from this, a tendency
arises to investigate every where cause and effect.
This slight digression has delayed a concluding re-
mark concerning Archimedes, namely, that he is one
of the few whose era serves as an epoch in the history
of knowledge ; this enviable position is attainable
only by a few in many ages who are sufficiently
gifted to kindle the lamp of science, and feed it till its
brilliancy becomes so conspicuous as to inhalo their
names with immortality.
T. L. D.
ORIGINAL FEMALE CHARACTERS.
It is in the inland dales of Scotland where we have
them in all their native symmetry of mind, while
every one of these mental structures differs as much
from the rest as thd*Gothic style from the Corinthian.
Among the farmers’ wives in the west of Scotland,
from the Clyde to the Solway, this is peculiarly the
case—l mean among the working farmers, with
which industrious class the greater part of that
populous district of the realm is stocked. There you
fin£ a new character at the head of affairs in every
household—a distinct species of being from all the
rest, who does not follow’ the example of her neigh-
bours in one instance, not even in churning the milk
—yet every one of these is strenuously aiming at the
same purpose, that of “ garring ends meet.”
We have some few of those here, too,, but not so
many. I have one in my eye, w’hom I shall deno-
minate the Goodwife o’ Traquair, who, if the position
be admitted, that the proper study of mankind is
woman, is one of the richest studies I have seen. When
she comes first into a party of her own class, a stranger
would think, as I have erst done, that she w T as going
to quarrel with every one present. She snaps at one,
finds fault with another, and contradicts a third plump
to his face; but by the time she has been fifteen or
twenty minutes in the party, she enters into all their
sympathies and humours with the deepest interest,
and will converse about them for a whole day or
night. All the evil deeds that men or women do she
ascribes to the corruption of our nature, a hint of
which mingles almost with every one of her remarks,
and has a most happy effect. Once she begins, her
volubility is -without end, yet she always complains
that she cannot get a word spoken—no, not a single
word she can get thrust in, the rest are all so intent
on speaking ! Then her husband, who takes his snuff
and glass rather heartily, is the constant butt of her
raillery. When other topics begin to flag in interest,
she turns on him, which is a source of never-ending
excitation and amusement. She has frequently caught
him in scrapes, real or pretended, with the servant
maids, with which she is quite delighted, as she calls
it “ getting a girn in his neck and I have seen him
so hard put to it, that he had no other resource but to
take out his mull and offer her a snuff.
This was on a particularly trying occasion for him.
There w r as then a very pretty girl a servant in the
house, named Peggy Thomson ; she was modest and
virtuous; and as the Goodman, when in his cups,
was frequently teasing her, she did not like it, and
told the Goodwife that she intended to leave the ser-
vice on that account. The G oodwife laughed heartily
at the girl’s foolish conceit, and desired her never to
regard him, for he was the most harmless, good-
natured being in existence, “ but had joost gottin a
gate o’ pook ing at the lasses, an’ couldna let it alane. ”
Peggy seeming hardly to take in this character of
her master, the Goodwife pressed her to tell what she
was afraid of; and Peggy at length answered, that he
had pressed her very much for a private meeting in
the cowhouse, and that so earnestly, that she was one
night on the point of complying ; and therefore she
would not run the risk again. The Goodwife was
both pleased and amused with Peggy’s simplicity and
fears, and requested her to set the tryste with the
Goodman at once, assuring her that he durst not for
his life keep it; “ and if he do,” added she, “ I will
come in with a candle and catch him, which will be
the best sport of all.” Peggy’s modesty, however,
took the alarm, and she refused to follow the Good-
wife’s injunctions.
At length it was agreed that Peggy should set the
tryste, which she did, and the Goodwife, dressed in
Peggy’s clothes, attended in her place. Perhaps the
Goodwife made that story worse than it was, but as
she described it, it w r as a rich one. That he might
screw up his courage, he went over to the inn, and
filled himself more than half-seas-over, and then
attended at the time and place appointed. The Good-
wife was there before him, and sat for a good while
listening, while he apostrophized himself—“ Well ;
here lam ! —I say—Goodman, are you sure that last
jug hasna rather dumbfoundered you ? Think ?
N°—l think not —I deny it—l’m rather steady—
steady, boys, steady ! I say, Peggy, are you here ?
Where are you, you sly elf? I hear you puffing
like to burst w r ith laughter, but I’ll find you out.
Here the Goodman, as she described it, went groping
in the dark tow-ards the sound he heard, till, coming
in contact with a cow that was lying puffing and chew'-
ing her cud, he stumbled over her, fell on her horns,
and hurt himself. The cow, springing up, in great per-
turbation of mind, threw the Goodman upon another
lying cow, and that upon another, and another, till
they tumbled him from one end of the byre half-way
to the other, w'hile he was cursing them all the way.
The Goodwife suppressed her laughter as well as she
could, but he overheard her, and still taking her for


Peggy Thomson, he hastened toAvards her, threatening
revenge : but instantly stopped short, Avith a “ What’s
that? Dang it, I hae broken my nose ! This is
most extraordinar! When I was handing out my
arms at their full length, that my nose should be the
langest o' the three ! Ane Avad think it Avas impossible.
Here the Goodwife recited the Avhole particulars of
the intervieAV. which it is needless to recapitulate ;
and at length she left him, and made her Avay into'
the house. All passed quietly over, and the Good-
man believed he had had a meeting Avith the young,
the lovely, an the modest Peggy Thomson. But,
behold, the next day, as soon as the GoodAvife got all
the lads and lasses assembled in the kitchen, she Aviled
the Goodman in among them on pretence of taking
some directions from him, and after these Avere all
settled, she said, “ But I hae a queer story to tell
you, Goodman. What’s that? Dang it, I hae
broken my nose ! Avha could hae trt>wed my nose Avas
langer than baith my arms ?”
The Goodman stared as if his eyes Avould have
leapt from their sockets.
“ An’ I’ll tell you mair—Ah! ae kiss o’ that
velvet cheek is Avorth tAventy of an auld wife ! A
plague on auld wives'an’ horned coavs ! say I.”
The Goodman took out his mull, took a hearty
pinch, and presenting it to his helpmate, said, “ I
say —my bonny Avoman, I think the best thing ye can
do is for till tak a snuff.”
“ No, I thank you, sir. You are very hardly set,
I think.”
“ Hemh ! I say, I think you had better tak ane.—
Hemh !”
I Avas once in the Goodwife’s kitchen about break-
fast time, Avhen the shepherd and the ploughman lads
and servant lasses were all present; a great noise of
laughter ensued, of Avhich perhaps I Avas partly the
cause. The Goodwife came in like a fiery dragon,
and I think I yet remember her speech word for word,
although, had it been of late years, I could not have
remembered a syllable.
“ What’s a’ this guffawing and gabbling about,
now when the sun is at the south kip, the kye roAvt-
ing on the loan, the hay lying in the sAvathe, the
kirn to kirn, an’ the peats to bigg ? Glaikit giglets !
Do ye think to get through the Avarld this gate ?
Tehee, hee—heeing about the lads, an’ about courting
favours, an’ kissing strings, an’ your master’s wark
lying at the Ava’ ! An’ yet ye will set up your jaws
and insist on the highest wages, and the best o’ fare
in the country ! An’ a’ for doing Avhat ? Curling
your locks, forsooth ; decking out your bit mortal
clay bodies; primming wi’ your smirks an’ your
dimples, and rinning jirking an’ joAvking after the
bonny lads!”
Here the lasses, who seemed to delight in their
mistress’ scolding, began to protest, with one
that they cared not for the lads ; when she went on—
« There Ave go! There Ave go ! Ilk ane ready Avi’
a bit lee in her mouth, an’ a’ to cloak the waefu’ cor-
ruption o’ her nature ! Ay, lack-a-day ! that’s our
besetting sin the stain —the fruit-maele o’ the
original transgression ! Poor things, poor things !
you bloom, bloAVze, flirt, an’ flash on for a day,
an’ then a’ down to poverty, pains, duds, an’ debi-
lity. Poor things, poor things! There’s nae help
for it! It is the preemary curse on us, an’ we
canna get aboon’t! We were the first to sin, an’ we
maun aye be the first to suffer ! Our state’s hut a
state o’ suffering frae beginning to end ; an’ really I
can hardly blame you for making the maist o’ your
youthfu’ day.—But bless me, will you stand haver-
havering on there till the day be done, an’ no gang to -
your Avark ? I never saw the like o’ you, for there’s
nae end o’ your speaking !”
“ Ay ! now, Goodwife, ye hae just said a’ yoursell.
I’m sure ye hae gotten a’ to say for me.”
“ Weel, I never heard sic impertinence! I’ll refer
to him there, w r ha is an orra man, if I hae ever gottin
in ae word. Gae away to your wark wi- ye, idle
huzzies ! An’ he sure to come in i’ time for your
dinner, for I’se warrand ye’ll soon he growin’ hungry,
poor things. Young creatures maun aye be feeding.”
There was another time that the Goodwife and one
of her lasses, Annie Blakely, was arguing about ori-
ginal sin, when the latter observed —“ lam sure,
Goodwife, you will acknowledge this, that that same
original sin, which ye blame for a’ the evil under the
sun,' although it began wi’ stealing, yet hasna left us
women folks ony inclination to steal.”
“ Has it no, hinny ? Has it left you no inklin’ to
steal, think ye ? I wish you kend your ain hearts,
and your ain natures as weel as I do ! What then
gars you like to take a piece in the pantry, out o’ my
sight, ten times better than at the kitchen table afore
us a’ ? Ye dinna ken, I fancy, that I’m obleegedto
hide the-meat that I want to hae first eaten ? Then
it soon gangs! —vanishes!—the cats tak it!—the
rottans hae been in hand wi’ it! —the dogs hae gotten
into the pantry ! Whereas, were I presenting it on
the kitchen table, there wadna be a bite o’ it tasted.
Ye dinna ken your ain natures, poor things, nor the
strong bias ye hae to lean to the wrang side, which a
springs frae natural corruption ! an’ till aince ye be-
come sensible o’ that, you will never be able to correct
or check a single error in your lives. Ye like a
hidden an’ forbidden things, an’ despise whatever is
pressed on you. O ay ! 0 ay ! waters are
sweet, an’ bread eaten in secret is pleasant to women !
Tell me this, now, Annie, what gars you like so weel
to kiss an’ toy wi’ a bonny lad in the mirk, and yet,
though you like him ever sae weel, what wad ye say
Avar he to use ony freedoms wi’ you afore our een ?
“ Indeed, Goodwife, I would take him in the teeth.
“ There Ave go ! There we go ! A’ frae the same
source! A’ frae the same fountain-head, that the
first sin has puddled and stained sae grievously, it
will never clear again till the end o’ time ! If a spring
be fouled on its Avay down the brae, it will soon
brighten up again, for the clear water behind will
wash away all impurities. But when the fountain-
head has the foul stain in it, there is naething can
purify that away! Ah, lack-a-day! naething else
but mixing wi’ the ocean o’ eternity, and then rising
again to the heavens purified to deAv ! But gae aAvay
—gae away to your Avark ; for gin I Avad but stand
an’ listen to you, shame fa’ me, if ye Avadna clatter
on till night.”— Blackwood's Magazine.
MR. RAE’S FOURTH LECTURE ON THE GENIUS
AND CHARACTER OF BURNS.
In this lecture-delivered on Monday evening the 26th ult.,
as usual, to a crowded audience —Mr. Rae continued, according
to promise, his Examination of the strictures of the Edinburgh
reviewer on Burns’ character and genius.


Mr. Rae’s remarks were copious, explanatory, and highly
interesting, and, in vindicating the poet from the numerous
aspersions of the reviewer, the lecturer brought forward much
collateral testimony, in favour of his arguments, from cotem-
porary writers, and adduced, as evidence, many of the poet’s
productions, which he quoted in his usual effective manner.
It is not our intention to give a full digest of the lecturer’s
comments on the remaining charges contained in the review in
question, but we shall select a few passages interesting to the
general reader. In reply to a paragraph in the said review,
consisting of remarks as to the indelicacy and want of polish
of Burns’ love songs, with other censure of a general nature,
Mr. Rae said “To part of these strictures I give my willing
assent, but I must protest against the sweeping nature .of the
general censure. From a thorough acquaintance with the
writings of Burns, I cannot help thinking that even in the pre-
sent age of refinement, he must be a very sensitive individual
who can find anything very indelicate in the love songs of
Burns—and a very inattentive reader of these songs, who
fancies that the muse of Burns deals in nothing but locked
embraces and midnight rencontres. If the Reviewer suppposes
that it was wrong in Burns, the peasant poet, to accommodate
his songs more to the natural feelings of his fellow-peasants,
than to the sweet austere composure of women of refinement*
I must acknowledge that I hold a very different opinion. I
should like to find in the whole circle of love-song writers one
to compare with Robert Burns—one who shows a tithe of his
feeling and graphic description of pure unaffected passion.
We meet in his songs, it isnrue, with nothing of Cupids or
torcnes or arrows, or any of the flowing machinery borrowed
from anywhere except the earth we inhabit, that occupies such
a prominent place in the effusions of our modern sentimental
song writers. These may suit the sweet austere composure of
women of refinement, but would appear flat, stale, and unpro-
fitable stuff, to the simple hearted maidens of Scotland, to
whom his songs were chiefly addressed. It was not in Burns’
nature to enact the part of Mr. Mantilini. He could not
address a bonnie Scotch lassie, as a « dem’d, enchanting,
bewitching, engrossing, captivating little Venus,” and expect
be understood. He addressed his fair countrywomen in
that universal language of the heart which nature and impas-
sioned feeling prompted, and which always finds a responding
chord in the bosom of the lowest as well as the highest.”
Again—“ It is true that the love songs of Burns sometimes,
though not always, deal in locked embraces, but when they do,
it by no means follows that they must be indelicate on that
account. Is there anything indelicate in his exquisite stanzas
entitled, Ae fond kiss— supposed to relate to his parting with
Clarinda ? which, according to Sir Walter Scott, contain the
essence of a thousand love songs.” What is there indelicate
in the song composed on his wife I—Of a* the airtsthe wind can
blaw. Again—who that loves poetry, is not in love with the
stanzas to Highland Mary ? Ye banks and braes and streams
around. Is there anything indelicate here ? Were we to look
for such a thing, the tears would blind our eyes before we found
it. There is not, says Wilson, so sweet and sad a passage re-
corded in the life of any other one of all the sons of song
Many such partings there have been between us poor beings,
blind at all times, and often blindest in our bliss—but all gone
to oblivion. But that hour can never die—that scene will last
for ever. Immortal the two shadows standing there holding
together the Bible—a little rivulet flowing between, in which,
as in consecrated water, they have dipt their hands, water not
purer than, at that moment, their united hearts.”
From another part of the lecture we quote-“Of the power
w nch Burns possessed of fancying himself freed from the cir-
cumstances by which he was surrounded, we have a beautiful
though mournful example in the song he composed on Jessie
, when he knew he was dying, to reward her
filial tenderness in attending him on his death bed. He loved
Jessie as a father loves a kind daughter, but even when the
hand of death was on him, he could look in her kind face and
feign a hopeless passion for her in the immortal verses —Thou
art sweet as the smile , Bfc. Who would not rather forgive the
fancies of the poet than be robbed of treasures such as these !”
We will not quote more of the former portion of the lecture
under our notice, which consists of the conclusion of the lec-
turer’s examination of, and successful vindication of the poe
from, the calumnies of the reviewer, but proceed to Mr. Rae’s
remarks on his Prose writings.
Here Mr. Rae proceeded to remark—“ The prose writings
of Burns consist of a series of letters to his friends. Although
his fame is not based upon these productions, still, when we
take into consideration the unfavourable circumstances of his
condition to the acquisition of an English style, I think we
must confess that his letters, if not the most excellent, are, at
all events, the most wonderful of his works. The composition
of many of these letters would not lose much in beauty and
elegance if placed by the side of some of Addison’s papers in
the Spectator. It must be confessed—and we should have
been surprised if it had been otherwise—-that in many of these
letters, there is an evident effort to say something fine. He
, is struggling with a foreign language, and engaged in a species
of translation. In most of them we miss the unaffected sim-
plicity which sits so gracefully on his poetry ; and even where
the sentiment is simple and natural enough, the style is often
turgid and strained. There are many exceptions, however to
this rule.”
Mr. Rae then illustrated his remarks by numerous quota-
tions from the poet’s letters, and concluded—” The letters
from which I have read extracts, and many others that might
be selected, will do more than exhibit a favourable specimen
of the style of Burns in prose compositions in the English
language. They must also speak eloquently of the religious
feelings of the poet, and silence in some measure the clamours
that have occasionally been raised against him on the score of
his impiety and infideli: In these letters we find him
doubting, indeed—but ardently wishing to be convinced of
the truth of revelation. The pious education he received
under his father’s roof clings to him through life. The errors
of his youth and manhood he is ever ready to confess. Remorse
ot conscience convinces him of his sins, and he is invariably
thrown back for relief to the healing balm to be found in the
consolations of religion. That Burns was imprudent and
erring, his greatest admirers are ready to confess ; but it is
not for erring mortals like ourselves to throw the first, stone at
our erring brother. Whatever were his vices, however, in-
fidelity was not one of them. He believed in the truths of
revelation with fear and trembling, and prayed to be relieved
trom his unbelief when it occasionally came over him like a
gloom.”
COMMERCIAL REVIEW.
Since last week may be noticed, the arrival of Thomas Lowry ,
from Manila, with 1000 chests of tea, and 450 tons of suo-ar,
with advices of further shipments of sugar, which has tended
to depress the market. The importation Ex lanthe, from
oston, consists of 580 kegs of tobacco, 300 barrels flour, 380
Dates ot hops, and tho usual assortment of American “ notions.”
The barque Mary White, from Liverpool, with merchandise,
also a shipment of mannfactured goods to the principal importer
in tins market. r
Saks have not transpired to any extent, but have been con-
nnea chiefly to immediate requirements.
Wheat. The late importation from Van Diemen’s Land
has found buyers from 3s. 9d. to 4s. per bushel.
Samples of Colonial growth realized, upon an average, 3s fid
per bushel.
Flour.— -This article continues without alteration in price
or sign of improvement.
Maize may be quoted at 13d per bushel, with tendency to
rise in price. 3
Hay and other produce without alteration.
B. S. LLOYD
Commission Agent, Bridge-street.
September 18tb, 1844.


pipping Entdltgcncr.
ARRIVALS.
September 12.—The schooner Vanguard, 61 tons, Captain
Pilfold, from Port Nicholson the 22nd August, with b’ack oil.
September 13.—The schooner Marian Watson, 116 tons,
Captain Taggart, from Hobart Town the 3lst August, with 50
bags wheat, 15 tons potatoes, 1 case steel pens.
September 13.—-The brig Bee, 134 tons, Captain Purcell,
from Auckland the 26th August, and the Bay of Islands the
3rd instant, with oil, &c.
September 13. —The ship Thomas Lowry, 409 tons, Captain
Graham, from Hongkong, the 29th May, and Manila, the 27th
June, with tea, sugar, &c.
September 13. —The brig Tohago , 136 tons, Captain
Pockley, from Port Phillip the 6th instant, with bark,
potatoes, &c.
September 14.—The schooner Terror, 95 tdns, Capmin
Dunning, from the Barrier, New Zealand, the 2nd instant,
with copper ore, manganese, &c.
September 14.—The American ship lanthe, 415 tons,
Captain Woodberry, from Boston the 16th May, and Hobart
Town the 7th instant, with a general cargo.
September 14.—The ship Sydney, 346 tons, Captain White,
from the Bay of Islands the 4th instant, with troops, stores, &c.
September 14 —The barque Mary White, 330 tons, Captain
Walker, from Liverpool the 21st May, with a general cargo.
September 17.—The schooner Wave, 65 tons, Captain
Camroux, from Howe’s Island the 19th instant, in ballast.
DEPARTURES.
September 12—The barque Haidee, Captain Marshall, for
London, with colonial produce.
September 12.—The steamer Sovereign, Captain Cape, for
Moreton Bay, with a general cargo.
September 13.—The brig William, Captain Thom, for
Launceston, with sundries.
September 16.—The steamer Shamrock, Captain Gilmore
for Twofold Bay, Port Phillip, and Launceston, with sundries
September 17.—The brig Louisa, Captain Tucker, for
Hobart Town, with a general cargo.
ISirtfjs.
On the 10th instant, at her residence in Elizabeth-street
the lady of D. Campbell, Esq., of a son.
On the 13th instant, at Upton, St. Leonard’s, North Miore,
the lady of T. G. S. Swan, Esq., Assistant Commissary
General, of a son, still born.
JWarriagcs.
On the 9tl? May, at St. Marylebone Church, by the Rev. J.
Tracey, vicar of Dartmouth, John Nodes Dickinson Esq., of
the Inner Temple, (one of the Judges of the Supreme Court
of New South Wales), to Helen, youngest daughter of the
late Captain Jauncey, R.N.
On the 16th instant, at St. James’s Church by the Right
Rev the Lord Bishop of Australia, Robert William, youngest
son of Colonel Shadforth, to Marianne Pering, third daughter
of Captain Hollinworth, R.N.
B*atf)S.
On the 13th instant, suddenly, at his residence, Macquarie-
street, P. Harnett, Esq., Assistant Colonial Surgeon.
On the 14th instant, at his residence, Terara, Shoalhaven,
after a short illness, and in the 52nd year of his age, Prosper
de Mester, Esq., late of Liverpool-street, Sydney.
On the 12th instant, at the residence of his father, Eastern
Creek, Charles Walker, second son of Mr. Joseph Pye, in his
18th year.
CITT ELECTION.
CANDIDATES for the approaching Election are respect-
fully informed that every description of PRINTING
pertaining to Election business, Posting-bills, Hand-bills
Cards, Envelopes, Voting Papers, &c„ may be obtained tc
order, at a few hours notice, and at low prices, at J. Reading j
GENERAL PRINTING OFFICE,
133, King-street East.
September 18th, 1844.
COLONIAL LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly XVEiscellany of Useful Information.
PUBLISHED EVERY THURSDAY MORNING.
PERSONS intending to become Subscribers to the Colonial
Literary Journal, are requested to signify the same to
the Publishers before the 26th inst., as considerable difficulty
is now found in making up complete sets of the earlier
Numbers of this Journal, in consequence of the demand having
increased, since its commencement, beyond the expectations
of the Proprietors.
The Publishers also beg to intimate, that in consequence of
the numerous applications already made for the earlier
Numbers of the Colonial Literary Journal, they will re-print
the whole of the first Thirteen Numbers, as soon as they shall
be required by 500 additional Subscribers.
Terms—THREE SHILLINGS per Quarter; payable, in
each case, in advance.
Notice of declination must be sent, in writing, to the Office,
133, King-street, accompanied with payment of arrears.
September ISth, 1844.
A CHAII.ENGE,
TO ENGLAND, IRELAND, SCOTLAND, AND ALL THE WORLD ,
BESIDE.
WALKER’S PATENT GROATS.
THIS ARTICLE, if tested, will be found to contain more
nutriment, than any similar article of the kind. E.
Walker is prepared to prove that two thirds of the quantity of
the above, if made in a proper manner, will be equal in nourish-
ment and of a thicker substance, than the usual quantity
generally recommended by others in the directions for use.
Another desirable property belonging to Walker’s Patent
Groats is, as regards the great safety for export—not liable to
that change which the English manufacture is, by turning
sour on the voyage, avoided by the patent mode of preparation,
and greatly aided by the spontaneous growth of the gram
grown in this Country; while free from the artificial culture
which causes so much moisture in the farina of the English
grain, and scarcely ever eradicated or sufficiently prepared.
Enough already is before the public to satisfy them that
Walker’s Farinaceous Food, (for Children and for Persons with
impared digestion,) ought not to be despised, and which for
the future will be packed in Tin Canisters, in order to preserve
its most agreeable flavour. With the usual white label-
sealed and signed Edward Walker-that only being genuine.
Wholesale orders to any extent will be immediately at-
tended to ; any export order exceeding ten gross of either
article, terms, half Cash, and the remainder when the goods
are resold.
Manufactory, Old Botany Road.
TO I.BT,
L HOUSE, situate in King-street East, containing four
good rooms on the ground floor, one large room and two
d-rooms on the first floor; kitchen and large cellar under
ound floor; with good dry stores, yard, and other conve-
ences. , . , , .
This house is situated in a central part of the street, and
lculated for carrying on an extensive business. Rent and
her particulars may be known on application at 133, King-
let ; or at Mr. Brown’s, grocer, King-street.
Agents for tSiis Journal.
Sydney, Mr. W. Jones, Circulating Library, Brickfield-hill.
Parramatta Mr. Hugh Taylor.
Windsor Mr. Walker.
Bathurst M f *
West Maitland • • Mr. Galloway.
Camden, Campbelltown, Penrith, and
Liverpool ' Mr. C. Lester.
Gunning Mr. Hawthorne.
