

COLONIAL
LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
“ NON TUA TE MOVEANT, SED PUBLICA YOTA.”
Vol. I. No. I.]
SYDNEY, THURSDAY, JUNE 27, 1844.
[Trice 4d.
INTRODUCTORY ADDRESS.
In our Prospectus we explained briefly the views
with which we undertake this publication ; but we
feel that our readers will expect us to dwell, in this
introductory article, at somewhat greater length, on
the plan and purposemf our work.
Unprecedented as is, in this colony, the appear-
ance of a Weekly Literary Miscellany, we commence
our present undertaking in the hope, that thereby
may be supplied that deficiency, which, it seems to us,
has hitherto prevented success from attending similar
efforts of this nature. We have been led to believe
that a weekly publication is more in accordance with
the public taste, than one issued at a longer interval;
and we now present our subscribers witw our com-
mencing number, in the humble hope that it may
receive their approbation. We must request their
most favourable consideration for a few unavoidable
omissions and deficiencies in our first number, which,
we trust, will not again occur.
To, by far the greater portion of, the inhabitants of
this colony, 'periodical literature must ever be the
most welcome, and, if rightly selected by them, the
most instructive. The pressing calls of business, or
of duty, will ever deprive many of the means of pur-
suing literature or science in any better way than by
desultory reading. It is, therefore, a pleasing reflec-
tion, that, wdtli the general increase of occupation,
lias also decreased the difficulty of obtaining useful
entertainment and instruction. Information, once to
be found only in expensive books—the ponderous
quarto and the laborious folio—is now dispersed in a
thousand minor channels, and diffused in so cheap
a form as to be accessible to every one. We propose,
therefore, by means of the Colonial Literary Journal ,
in some measure, to supply to this colony, , her share
of an advantage so desirable, and so conducive to
general satisfaction ; being assured, that every advance
in the pursuit of knowledge, which the mind makes
towards attaining perfection, must necessarily increase
the rational enjoyments of life.
“ Where’er the rays of science cheer mankind,
Or learning’s hallowed light illumes the mind,
There knowledge pours her countless treasures forth,
And points to wisdom, honour, fame, and worth ;
There splendid talents proud distinction claim,
There genius earns a never-dying name,
Virtue asserts her power, and merit tries.
No more in vain to bear away the prize,
tor truth and justice there with freedom reign,
t And modest merit follows in their train.”
If it be inquired, -what are the particular principles
we maintain ; we reply, that we intend to uphold the
Christian faith, being equally opposed to bigoted in-
tolerance, and averse to reckless sectarianism or mis-
judged liberalism. No acerbity of party-feeling, either
religious or political, 'will be designedly admitted in
the columns of the Colonial Literary Journal; but
its pages are open to fair and temperate argument;
for, without enquiry, there can be no feeling of
security; and, without controversy, the truth cannot
well be elicited.
Hoping to receive the kind assistance of able Con-
tributors, we propose to insert, in each number of our
Miscellany, Essays, and other articles, on literary and
scientific topics.
A section of History will occupy a "weekly portion
of our pages : with this view, w'e have selected a writer
on universal history peculiarly suitable to our pur-
pose, and we propose to reprint from his work, in
most instances, od literam. We insert, in this present
number, the author’s introduction, which renders any
further comment on this science superfluous on our
part.
A select Biographical Sketch will also be frequently
found in this periodical. The utility of biography is
now generally admitted : without it, history is de-
fective, and chronology uninteresting. By the recital
of particular facts, and the display of minute circum-
stances, the reader’s attention is arrested,' and the
knowledge of great events imprinted on his memory ;
and by the perusal of brilliant exploits, and the con-
templation of magnanimous actions, his judgment is
regulated, and his mind enlarged.
New discoveries and improvements in the Arts and
Sciences w 7 ill be pointed out to our readers, and com-
mented upon ; and the progress of colonial research
delineated and illustrated.
We shall shortly review, together with the latest
English publications, whatever productions may issue
from the Colonial press. It will be our object to
furnish our readers, as far as is consistent with brevity,
with a really faithful account, and, when practicable,
an analysis, of the works subjected to cur critical
notice.
An entertaining Narrative will be frequently in-
serted, together with numerous amusing extracts from
popular writers.
A description of one of the various Trades will be
also occasionally given, for the. information of our
younger readers.
Under the head of “ The Moralist,” we shall insert,
weekly, a small number of moral extracts. At first
sight, this section may appear antiquated or- cum«


hersome, but we trust that the intrinsic value of these
moral gems will prove a sufficient apology for their
insertion.
Correspondence, with original and select Poetry,
and other miscellanea, will amply suffice to fill the
remainder of the space allotted to literary subjects.
In addition to the above, an equal portion of our
pages, as we remarked in our prospectus, will be
occupied, among various other articles, by a careful
digest of general and local intelligence. Under this
head will be included a summary of the latest British,
Foreign, and Domestic news; the proceedings of the
Colonial Legislature ; law intelligence ; public meet-
ings ; shipping news; passing events, and such other
interesting intelligence as can be obtained.
We shall, in our double character as Journalists,
sedulously watch the progress of events, and zealously
advocate, without submission to the opinions of any
one party, the true interests of the colony, both in her
political and commercial aspect. In furtherance of
this object, we invite the correspondence of the public
generally. We shall be glad to receive the senti-
ments of all parties; and, w'here intemperate expressions
are not used, we shall insert such communications as
we may be favoured with of a salutary description.
We have now, we trust, explained in an intelligible
manner, the principles and plan of our publication.
We have, further, earnestly to request, from our friends
and the public generally, that cordial support which
may enable us to carry what we purpose into full
effect; and, if at any time deficiency or error be de-
tected in our labours, let not our readers throw us
hastily aside. We ask their patience, and depend
upon receiving their assistance. Once more quoting
from our prospectus, we appeal to the inhabitants of
this city—to the intelligent reading inhabitants of this
colony—in behalf of the Colonial Literary Journal .
To speak figuratively, we trust that the pulse of this
embryo metropolis of the south, though temporarily
depressed and enfeebled, can and w T ill afford a throb
to set in motion and sustain this our cherished bant-
ling —this “our little work!” We will not dwell
upon the to-be-lamented fate of our predecessors, but
look forward with cheerfulness, and proceed with
activity ; and, if our present undertaking prove to be
nothing better than another link in the chain of
endeavours, we must submit, not willingly, but
patiently, to the public fiat.
Hoping for, and having good reason confidently to
expect, “better things,” w r e shall thankfully receive
and acknowledge any literary contributions with which
we may he favoured, and shall attend, when prac-
ticable, to the approved hints of our correspondents.
As caterers for the public taste, our sole endeavour
will be to combine the utile with the dulce —to render
this Miscellany as attractive, and as useful, as our
means, time, and talents, will permit.
PERIODICAL LITERATURE.
It has often forced itself upon our mind, when in-
dulging in a train of thought upon Literature in
general, that far greater strides towards excellence
might have been made in this particular branch of
the art, than, hitherto, have been. The narrowed
limits to which, voluntarily, we have confined our-
selves, are alike prejudicial to our advancement as a
colony, and our genius as a people. Nor are these
facts at all controverted by the recollection, that of
all branches of literature there are none better calcu-
lated to chase away the darkness of ignorance in
which such vast numbers of the lower classes of our
population are at present sunk.
Those illustrious philanthropists, Steele and
Addison—the fathers of this branch of our literature
—were actuated, doubtless, in their undertaking by
motives noble and sublime. The high moral tone
which pervades the pages of the Toiler and Spectator,
shew r s how anxious they were to better the moral
condition of those, for whom, principally, these
emanations were intended ; and, verily, they have had
their reward. The genius of our country roused
others, who were both able and willing to keep
flowing that stream of literature, which had now
found its way into the hovel of poverty and the hot-
bed of crime. Periodical Literature, having once
gained a hold upon the minds of the people, steadily
pursued its way ; while fresh demands upon the
energies of the enlightened scholar, told, in silent but
convincing terms, with what eagerness the poorer
classes sought to dispel the mfcral darkness which
hung so portentously over them. Having once
breathed the pure air of enlightenment, they sickened
at the thought of again returning to their former
degraded condition; where all that once contributed
to their pleasures, had assumed a character and shape
the most revolting.
The growing demands which w r ere thus made by
the illiterate for larger and more copious supplies of
knowledge, were readily and cheerfully responded to
by the literary men of Britain. And the Periodical
Literature with which Europe is now deluged, while
it accounts for the growing enlightenment of the
poorer classes, redounds also to the glory and genius
of the nation ; placing her eminently superior to all
others in the march of civilization, and in a holy
desire to ameliorate the distressed condition of the
uneducated and the poor.
The sterling character of the Periodical Litera-
ture of Europe carries on its surface a sure and
certain prosperity. The mass of information con-
veyed to the public by its means is valuable in the
extreme. Nor can we refrain from expressing our
delight at the marked substitution of sound practical
knowledge, in lieu of the light and ephemeral pro-
ductions which marked the advent of this portion of
our literature. Some of the periodicals of Britain
are, in this respect, worthy of being named with
much applause. Without attempting, however, to
single out any particular work for admiration, we
can scarcely refrain from awarding our meed of
praise to all productions similar to Chambers' Infor-
mation for the People. Its pages teem with sound
practical essays, admirably adapted to satisfy the
wants of those classes for whose benefit they are
intended. It cannot, nevertheless, be denied, that all
periodical publications are pregnant with many and
great advantages, and are, consequently, worthy of
the warmest support they can receive.
It has, on more occasions than one, elicited
surprise, that in a colony like ours no desire
should have been evinced for cheap literary works,
similar to those which now inundate the mother
county. And although we are apt to ascribe this
apathy, on the part of the public generally, to a
morbid desire for other and less substantial enjoy


merits, yet it must be evident to all, that, in a
great degree, it may be traced to the circum-
stance, that in this colony, hitherto, there have
been no cheap periodical publications, having for
their object the dissemination of knowledge amongst
the working classes. The failure of each attempt, has
been, we are convinced, more owing to the fact, that
the lower orders of the people have been unable to
afford the somewhat exorbitant subscription, than from
any disinclination on their part to participate in the
advantages which, it is but natural to suppose, would
have resulted from its success. The great error com-
mitted by those who have endeavoured to establish
literary periodicals has been, that in lieu of relying
principally for support upon persons in the more
humble walks of life, they have placed their greatest
dependence on those classes who occupy a more
exalted station; and w r ho, consequently, stand in less
need of that information, which -works of this nature
are supposed to convey.
That there has been a fatal error committed, we are
convinced ; and it is the object of our present publica-
to remedy the evil. The patronage which is, or
ought to be, extended to Periodical Literature, by the
two great classes of our population, whilst it proceeds
from different principles, is nevertheless equally in-
cumbent upon both. The learned are supposed to
countenance cheap publications in order to facilitate
their more effectual dissemination amongst the igno-
rant ; whilst the unlearned are presumed to support
it for the advantages accruing to themselves—indivi-
dually and collectively.
In this colony there are wide and ample fields for
the extension of knowledge amongst the poorer classes;
and we are bound to take upon ourselves some
measure of the blame, which undoubtedly attaches
itself to the literary portion of our community.
Knowledge (we here employ the word in its most
extended meaning) is a more effectual lveapon for
stemming the torrent of crime, than punishment. It
strikes at the root of all evil—religious, moral, and
political. Whilst ignorance reigns supreme, and the
mind and the reason are kept in subjection to its
bent, nothing can be more palpable than the fact,
that crime in its most hideous shape will be the
certain result. To anticipate moral improvement
under such circumstances would be absurd—it would
be preposterous. If the fountain-head be choked
with filth, we can never expect that a pure stream will
now out of its pollution. And so it is with the mind
of man. For while the reins of reason are held by
blind and infatuated ignorance, it is obvious, that
those feelings which were implanted within us for
noble and virtuous purposes, will be fashioned into
tie piedominant passions of our nature—converting
that which should have been a charm and a grace,
into a hissing and a reproach.
It cannot but be allowed that so far as the present
publication is concerned, we have now done all that
lies within our reach ; and we shall be greatly mis-
taken, if our efforts to establish a cheap Periodical
Literature in the colony, be not met with a cordial
and hearty response on the part of the public.
u ’T* s not in mortals to command success,
But we’ll do more, Sempronius, we’ll deserve it.”
* * *
THE CAR OF LITERATURE.
[an extract.]
Literature, as well as science, if it does not go
forward, is apt to perish where it stands; or even to
lose ground rapidly. But, let us not imagine, that
he, who sits aloft, guiding the car; or that the fiery
steeds, which bear it along; are alone entitled to
our admiration. How many unseen hands are, at
this moment, employed, in shaping the various and
complicated parts of that divine machinery ! How
many, in drawing together the fit materials for its
structure ; scattered, as they are, over the whole
surface of the universe ! How many, in exploring
distant regions, for those gems and brilliant dyes,
which glitter in the sunshine of peace ; and captivate,
for a time, our roving fancy ! How many faithful
and diligent pioneers are now clearing thickets*,
forcing out precipices, and removing the obstructions ;
with which time, and neglect, and prejudice, and
ignorance, have contributed to impede our progress!
How many skilful engineers are planning new lines
of direction for our road ; smoothing ascents, cutting
off angles and useless windings, uniting the yawning
sides of valleys, round which we formerly toiled in
tedious circuit; and providing, across the hitherto-
untrodden gulf, a firm atid safe passage ! How many,
of livelier imagination, and more buoyant spirits, are
adorning the road-side with flowers ; dressing out the
country, right and left, in all the fair varieties of
nature: opening the landscape to our view; and
giving us, at intervals, a prospect of those happy
fabled regions ; lit up by the gleams of hope and of
memory ; which please, even at a distance; and
charm away the tedium of human life !
History.
INTRODUCTION.
[from tytler’s elements of general history.]
THE ADVANTAGES ARISING FROM THE STUDY OF HIS-
TORY, AND MORE PARTICULARLY FROM PROSE-
CUTING IT ACCORDING TO A REGULAR PLAN.
1. The value of any science is to he estimated
according to its tendency to promote improvement,
either in private virtue, or in those qualities which
render man extensively useful in society. Some
objects of pursuit have a secondary utility ; in fur-
nishing rational amusement, which, relieving the
mind at intervals from the fatigue of serious occu-
pation, invigorates and prepares it for fresh exertion.
It is the perfection of any science, to unite these
advantages, to promote the advancement of public
and private virtue, and to supply such a degree of
amusement as to supersede the necessity of recurring
to frivolous pursuits for the sake of relaxation.
Under this description falls the science of History.
2. History, says Dionysius of Halicarnassu*,
“is philosophy teaching by examples.” The supe-
rior efficacy of example to precept is universally
acknowledged. All the laws of morality and rules
of conduct are verified by experience, and are con-
stantly submitted to its test and examination. His-
tory, which adds to our own experience an immense
treasure of the experience of others, furnishes innu-
merable proofs, by which we may verify all the
precepts of morality and of prudence.


3. History, besides its general advantages, has a
distinct species of utility to different men, according
to their several ranks in society, and occupations in
life.
4. It is an indispensable duty of every man of
liberal birth to be acquainted, in a certain degree,
with the science of politics ; and History is the school
of politics. It opens to us the springs of human
affairs ; the causes of the rise, grandeur, revolutions,
and fall of empires. It points out the reciprocal
influence of government and of national manners; it
dissipates prejudices, nourishes the love of our country,
and directs to the best means of its improvement: it
illustrates equally the blessings of political union,
and the miseries of faction ; the danger, on the one
hand, of uncontrolled liberty, and, on the other, the
debasing influence of despotic power.
5. It is necessary that the study of History should
be prosecuted according to a regular plan ;* for this
science, more perhaps than any other, is liable to
perversion from its proper use. With some it is no
better than an idle amusement; with others it is the
food of vanity ; with a third class it fosters the pre-
judices of party, and leads to political bigotry. It is
dangerous for those who, even with the best inten-
tions, seek for historical knowledge, to pursue the
study without a guide ; for no science has been so
little methodized. The sources of prejudice are in-
finite ; and the mind of youth should not be left
undirected amidst the erring, the partial, and con-
tradictory representations of historians. Besides the
importance of being able to discriminate truth from
falsehood, the attention ought to be directed only to
useful truths. Much danger arises from the perusal
of memoirs, collections of anecdotes, &c., for many
of those works exhibit the most depraved pictures,
weaken oar confidence in virtue, and present the
most unfavourable views of human nature.
6. There are many difficulties which attend the
attempt of forming a proper plan of study, and giving
an instructs e view of General History. Utility is
to be reconciled with amusement, prejudices are to
be encountered, variety of taste to be consulted,
political opinions balanced, judgment and decision
exercised on topics keenly controverted. The proposer
of such a plan ought/ therefore, to be possessed
equally of firmness of mind, and moderation of sen-
timent. Disregarding every partial and inferior con-
sideration, he must direct his view solely to the proper
end of all education —The forming of good men, and
of good citizens.
7. The object and general purpose of the fol-
lowing Course, is to exhibit a progressive view of the
state of mankind, from the earliest ages of which we
have any authentic accounts down to the close of the
seventeenth century ; to delineate the origin of states
and of empires, the great outlines of their history,
the revolutions which they have undergone, the causes
which have contributed to their rise and grandeur,
and operated to their decline and extinction.
For these purposes it is necessary to bestow par-
ticular attention on the manners of nations, then
law r s, the nature of their governments, their religion
their intellectual improvements, and their progress
in the arts and sciences.
Th: author’s plan will be inserted jn our nest number.
DIFFERENT USES OF READING AND CON-
VERSATION.
In barbarous times, when conversation had no other-
topic than what immediate occasion or necessary
employment produced, (which was once the case.) it
is evident, that no knowledge could be obtained but
from books.
As civilization advanced, and commerce produced
social intercourse, conversation grew more enlarged,
and knowledge was gained from the mouth as well
as from the pen. This, undoubtedly, Was an im-
provement in every sense. In Trance both sexes
first assembled on an easy footing, and it was in
that country where knowledge from books was first
neglected.
This principle spread with the language and man-
ners, and it soon became fashionable to call the
learning acquired from reading, pedantry. As I con-
sider this to have been, but very lately, the state of
things in our own country, I have a few words to
say in defence of the instruction obtained from books,
and to give some reasons why it ought, for all sub-
stantial purposes, to be preferred to that which arises
from conversation.
The object of conversation is entertainment —the
object of reading is instruction. No doubt, con-
versation may instruct, and reading may entertain ;
but this occasional assumption of each other’s cha-
racteristic, only varies the principle, without de-
stroying it.
When persons converse, deep disquisition is out of
place—the subjects should be general and light, in
which all may be supposed capable of joining. Every
thing professional is avoided, which, whether from
the divine, the lawyer, the physician, the merchant,
or soldier, is equally pedantic as from the scholar.
All debate is shunned, lest warmth might become
heat. If fire be produced by the collision of senti-
ments, it should just shine for a moment, like the
harmless coruscations of a summer evening, but not
pierce like lightning.
Conversation, to be agreeable, should be divided
equally-—no one should engross it, or neglect to fui-
nish his quota—but as it requires some practice, and
perhaps talents, to engage in sdaall-talk, without
ascending into an upper region, or sinking into
vacuity ; those who find a difficulty in steering this
middle course, and think it necessary to keep up the
shuttle-cock of conversation ; occasionally hazard an
expression, which will not bear strict examination,
but it may appear sufficiently like truth for the present
purpose, and to be adopted as such hereafter. 1
is sometimes overcome by wit a lively repaitee wi
at any time put it to flight. Strength may crush
and kill, but smartness makes the stroke to be felt.
In conversation it is not easy to avoid falsities.
A story is begun, of which the relater has only a
geneial knowledge ; as he proceeds, he is obligee to
fill up the deficiencies of memory by invention ; the
next relater does the same, and probably, in different
places After a few of these oral editions, truth is
entirely supplanted by falsehood. If this happen
when there is no intention to deceive, what must be
the effect when the variation is not accidental ?
To discover truth is seldom the intention of con-
versation. Should a dispute arise, its object is not
to establish facts, but to obtain victory. If the maxims
of our great moralist (Dr. Johnson) were to be ta^en


from topics he has defended, or contradicted in com-
pany, he must be considered as the most absurd of
mortals —this might be sport to him, but it was death
to others : the worshippers of this idol considering
him as a real divinity, and his words as oracles.
These circumstances, and many others not enu-
merated in this sketch, very much disqualify conver-
sation from being a school of instruction. If we wish
far real information, we must undoubtedly seek it
from its old source.
As conversation is furnished from the impulse of
the moment, so books consist of digested thoughts,
which are selected from many others—these are im-
proved, added to, or curtailed, upon mature and
frequent deliberation —the author is hurried into
nothing; but whatever his ideas are upon the subject
be has chosen, he may give them that order and ex-
pression which will show his meaning clearest and
best. And surely it cannot admit of a moment’s
doubt, whether mature conceptions, put into form,
are not superior to expressions from accident, and
momentary impulse—not to mention the multitude
of subjects, which, in company, will not admit of
.any discussion.
We may then venture to assert the superiority of
books over conversation, where instruction is the
object; without having the least intention of depre-
ciating the pleasures of society.— Jackson's Essays.
THE MERCHANT’S DAUGHTER AND THE
JUDGE.
[a tale, by captain marryatt.]
It was the land of poetry and song —the land peopled
with the memories of the mighty past—the land over
which the shadows of a long renown rested more
glowingly than a present glory. It was beautiful
Italy ; the air, like a sweet odour, ivas to the senses
as soft as thoughts are to the mind, or tender feelings
to the heart, breathing serenity and peace. That
sweet air swept balmily over the worn brow of an
invalid, giving to the pallid hue of his countenance
the first dawn of returning health.
The eye of the invalid was fixed on the dark
character of a book in cumbrous binding and massive
clasps, which the Roxburgh Club would now consider
an invaluable black-lettery ; and so absorbed was he
in its perusal that he heard not the approaching steps
oi visitors, until the sound of their greetings roused
him from his meditations.
“ The saints have you in their keeping J” said the
elder visitor, a man whose brow bore traces of ao-e,
though time had dealt leniently with him.
“ The, dear Madonna bless you!” ejaculated his
other visitor, a young girl with the large flashing
eye, the pure oval face, and the classic contour of
Italy.
The invalid bowed his head to each of these salu-
tations.
“ And now,” said the merchant, for such was the
elder visitor, “ that your wounds are healing, and
your strength returning, may we not inquire of your
kin and country ?”
A slight flush passed over the pale face of the sick
man ; he was silent for a moment, as if communing
with himself, and then replied, “ I am of England,
and a soldier, albeit of the lowest rank.”
Of England ! hastily responded the merchant,
“of England! of heretic England !” He crossed him -
self devoutly, and started back as if afraid of con -
tamination,
(C I may not deny home and country, ’ replied the
soldier, mildly.
“ But I shall incur the church's censure for har -
bouring thee!” exclaimed the merchant; “ thou
knovvest not what pains and penalties may be mine
for doing thee this service !”
“ Then let me forth,” replied the soldier; “you
have been to me the good Samaritan, and I would
not requite you evil; let me go on my way, and may
the blessing of heaven be upon you in the hour oi
your own need!”
tl Nay, nay, I said not so. Thou hast not yet
strength for the travel, and besides, England wan
once one of the, brightest jewels in our holy father s
crown, and she might reconcile herself again ; but I
fear me she will not, for your master, Henry, is a
violent, hot-blooded, man, and he hath torn away the
kingdom from apostolic care. Know you not that
your land is under interdict, and that.l, as a true.sou
of holy mother church, ought not now to be changing
words with thee'?”
“ Even so,” replied the soldier, “ but there are
many that think the king’s grace hardly dealt by."
“ The shepherd knoweth best how to keep his fold,”
replied the merchant, hastily ; “ but you are the king’s
soldier, you take his pay, you eat his bread, ami
doubtless ought to hope the best for him, and even so
do I. I would that he might repent and humble him
self, and then our holy father would again receive
him into the fold ; but, now I bethink me, thou v, cm
reading; what were thy studies'?”
The brow of the soldier clouded ; he hesitated a
moment; but then gathering up his resolution, re-
plied, “ In the din of the battle this book was mv
breast-plate, in the hour of sickness my best balm ,
and he laid the open volume before the merchant.
“ Holy Saint!” exclaimed the merchant, crossing
himself, and drawing back as he beheld the volume
which the church had closed against the layman.
“ Thou art among the heretics who bring down a
curse upon the land! Nay, thy sojourn here may
bring down maledictions upon me and mine ! upon
my house and home ! But thou shalt forth. I will
not harbour thee! I will deliver thee over to Tic
church, that she may chasten thee ! Away from him,
my child ! away from him !”
The soldier sat sad and solitary, watching the
dying light of the sun, as he passed majestically on
to shine in other lands. One ray rested on the
thoughtful brow of the lonely man as he sat bracing
up his courage to meet the perilous future. As he
thus mused, a soft voice broke upon his reverie.
“Tou are thinking of your own far off home,”
said the Italian girl; “how I wish that all I lose
had but one home—it is a grief to have so nnny
homes !” ‘ '
“ There is such a home !” replied the soldier.
Ah ! replied Amelia ; “ but they say that here -
tics come not there ! Promise me that you will not
be an heretic any longer.”
The soldier smiled and sighed.
."Jr gue T wh y lam here to-night,” resumed
Hie Italian girl. “ I know it by that smile and si-h.
You think that I am come to tell you to seek your
own land and home, and therefore you smiled, and


you just breathe one little sigh because you leave
this bright sun—and me.”
u Am I then to leave you, perhaps to be delivered
over to the powder of your implacable Church'?”
Amelia crossed herself. 11 No, no, go to your own
land and be happy. Here is money ; my father
could not deny me when I begged it of him with
kisses and tears. Go and be. happy, and forget us.”
u Never !” exclaimed the soldier earnestly ; “ never !
and you, my kind and gentle nurse, my good angel
—you who have brought hopes to my pillow, and
beguiled the sad hours of sickness in a foreign land —
words are but poor things to thank thee with.”
“ I shall see you no more !” said the young Italian,
“ and what shall make me happy when you are
gone *? Who will tell me tales of flood and field *?
I have been happy while you were here, and yet
we met very sadly. My heart stood still when we
first found you covered with blood, on our way back
to Milan after the battle. You had crept under a
hedge, as we thought, to die. But I took courage to
lay my hand upon your heart, and it still beat; so
we brought you home; and never has a morning
passed, but I have gathered the sweetest flowers to
freshen your sick pillow ; and while you were in-
sensible in that terrible fever, I used to steal into
your bed-chamber and kneel at your bed foot, and
pray for the Madonna’s care. And when you re-
vived, you smiled at my flowers, and when you had
voice to speak, thanked me.”
Amelia’s voice was lost in sobs : and what wonder if
one from a man’s sterner nature mingled with them ?
The morrow came. The Italian girl gathered a
last flow r er, and gave it in tearful silence to the
soldier. He kissed the fragrant gift, and then, with
a momentary boldness, the fair hand that gave it,
and departed. The young girl w r atched his footsteps
till they were lost to sound, and then abandoned her-
self to weeping.
* * * *. * *
<c Thou art sad, dear daughter,” said a venerable
father to his child, as they traversed that once coun-
trified expanse through rvhich we jostle our way
from the city to Westminster; “ thou art sad, dear
daughter.”
“ Nay, my father,” replied the maiden, “ I would
not do so; but it is hard always to wear a cheerful
countenance when ”
“ The heart is sad, thou woulds’t say ”
“ Nay, I mean it not.”
“ I have scarcely seen thee smile since w r e entered
this England—may I not say this heretic England.”
“ Hush ! dear father, hush ! the winds may whisper
it; see you not we are surrounded by a multitude.”
“ They are running madly to some revelry.”
“ Let us leave the path, then,” said the girl; it
suits not our fallen fortunes, or our dishonoured faith,
to seem to mingle in this stream of folly. Doubtless
the king hath some new pageantry.”
“ Well, and if it be so,” replied the father, “ haply
the gewgaw and the show might bring back the
truant smile to thy lip, and the lost lustre to thine
eye. Thou art too young to be thus moodily sad.
See how anxious, how eager, how happy seem this
multitude! not one care-worn brow! thou may’st
catch their cheerfulness : we will go with the stream.”
The girl offered no further resistance. They were
strangers in the land ; poor, almost pennyless. They
had come from their own country to reclaim a debt
which one of the nobles of the court had incurred in
more prosperous days, when the merchant was rich
in gold, and merchandise.
The vast throng poured on, swelling until it be-
came a mighty tide ; the hells pealed out, the cannon
bellowed, human voices augmented the din. The
Thames was lined on either bank ; every building
on its margin crowded, and its surface peopled.—
Every sort of aquatic vessel covered its bosom, so
that the flowing river seemed rather some broad road
teeming with life. Galley after galley, glittering
with the gold and the purple, came on laden with the
wealth, and the pride, and the beauty of the land,
and presently the acclamation of a thousand voices
rent the skies, “ The King ! the king ! long live the
king!” He came —Henry VIII. came, in all that
regal dignity, and gorgeous splendour in which he
so much delighted.
And then began the pageant, contrived to throw
odium on Home, and to degrade the pretensions of
the pope. Two galleys, one bearing the arms of
England, the other marked by the papal insignia,
advanced towards each other, and the fictitious con-
test commenced.
Borne on by the crow T d, our merchant and his
daughter had been forced into a conspicuous situation.
The peculiar dress, the braided hair, the beauty and
foreign aspect of the girl had marked her out to the
rude gallantry of the crowd ;so that the father and
daughter were themselves objects of interest and
curiosity.
The two vessels joined, and the mimic contest was
begun. Of course the English colors triumphed over
the papal. Up to this point, the merchant bore his
pangs in silence ; but when the English galley had
assumed the victory, then came the trial of patience.
Effigies of the cardinals w r ere hurled into the stream
amidst the shouts and derisions of the mob. At each
plunge groans issued from his tortured breast. It
was in vain that Amelia clung to his arms, and im-
plored him by every fear to restrain himself. His
religious zeal overcame his prudence ; and w r hen, at
last, the figure of the pope, dressed in his pontifical
robes, was hurried into the tide, the loud exclama-
tion of agony and horror burst from his lips, “Oh
monstrous impiety of an accursed and sacrilegious
king!” sounded loudly above the din of the mob.
It was enough : the unhappy merchant was imme-
diately consigned over to the secular arm.
Oh, sad w ere those prison hours ! The girl told
her beads —the father prayed to all the saints—and
then came the vain consolations by which each en-
deavoured to cheer the other. They thought of their
own sunny land, its balmy air, its living beauty, and
that thought was home.
November came with all its gloom—the month
that should have been the grave of the year, coming
as it does with shroud and cerecloth, foggy, dark and
dreary ; the father’s brow numbered more wrinkles,
the once black hair was more nearly bleached, the
features more attenuated.
And the daughter—ah! youth is the transparent
lamp of hope—but in her the light was dim.
In fear and trembling the unhappy foreigners
waited the day of doom. The merchant’s offence was
one little likely to meet with mercy, Henry was
jealous of his title of head of the church. He had


drawn up a code of articles of belief, which his sub-
jects were desired to suberibeto. and he had instituted
a court, of which he had made Lord Croimvell vicar
general, for the express trial of those whose orthodoxy
in the king’s creed was called in question. Neither
could the unhappy merchant hope to find favour w T ith
the judge, for it was known that Croimvell was
strongly attached to the growing reformation ; and
from the acts of severity w T ith which he had lately
visited some of the adherents of the Romish creed,
in his new character of vicar general, it w-as scarcely
probable that he would show mercy to one attached
by lineage and love to papal Rome. Strangers as
they were, poor, unknowing, what had they not to
fear, and what was left for hope ?
The morning of trial came. The fogs of that
dismal month spread like a dark veil over our earth.
There was no beauty in the landscape, no light in the
heavens, and no hope in the heart.
The judges took their places ; a crowd of wretched
delinquents came to receive their doom. We suppose
it to be a refinement of modern days, that men are not
punished for their crimes, but only to deter others
from committing them. This court of Henry’s
seemed to think otherwise ; there was all the array
of human passion in the judges as well as in the
judged. On one hand, recreant fear abjured his
creed ; on another heroism braved all contingencies,
courting the pile and the stake with even passionate
desire, and the pile and the stake were given with
unrelenting cruelty.
At length there stood at the bar an aged man and a
young girl, the long white hair of the one fell loosely
over the shoulders, and left unshaded a face wrinkled
as much by care as by age; the dark locks of the
other were braided over a countenance clouded by
sorrow, and wet with tears.
The mockery of trial went on. It was easy to
prove what even the criminal did not attempt to
gainsay. The aged merchant avowed his fidelity to
the Pope as a true son of the church, denied the su-
premacy of Henry over any part of the fold, and thus
sealed his doom.
There was an awful stillness through the court —
still as the precursor of doom—broken only by the
sobs of the weeping girl, as she clung to her father’s
arm. Howbeitthe expected sentence was interrupted;
there came a sudden rush, fresh attendance thronged
the court. “ Room for Lord Cromwell !—room for
Lord Cromwell !” and the vicar-general came in his
pomp and his state, with all the insignia of office, to
assume his place of pre-eminence at that tribunal.
Notes of the proceedings ivere laid before Lord Crom-
well. He was told of the intended sentence, and he
made a gesture of approbation. A gleam of hope
dawned upon the mind of the Italian girl as Lord
Cromwell entered. She watched his countenance
while he read it; it was stern, indicative of calm
determination ; but there were lines in it that spoke
more of mistaken duty than innate cruelty.—Yet,
when the vicar-general gave his token of assent, the
steel entered Amelia’s soul, and a sob, the veriest
accent of despair, rang through that court, and where
it met with a human heart, pierced through all the
cruelty and oppression that armed it, and struck
upon some of the natural feelings that divide men
from monsters. That sound struck upon Lord Crom-
well’s ear, his eye sought the place whence it pro-
ceeded ;it rested on Amelia and her father. A
strange emotion passed over the face of the stern judge
—a perfect' stillness followed.
Lord Cromwell broke the silence. He glanced
over the notes that had been handed to him ; speaking
in a low voice, apparently to himself—“ From Italy
a merchant —Milan—ruined by the wars' —ay,
those Milan wars were owing to Clement’s ambition
and Charles’ knavery ; the loss of substance to
England to reclaim an old indebtment.”
Lord Cromwell’s eye rested once more upon the
merchant and his daughter. “Ye are of Italy —from
Milan ; is that your birth-place ?”
“We are Tuscans,” replied the merchant, “of
Lucca ; and oh ! noble lord, if there is mercy in this
land, show it now to this unhappy girl.”
“To both or to neither!” exclaimed the girl, 11 we
will live, or we will die together !”
The vicar-general made answer to neither. He
rose abruptly ; at a sign given by him, the proper
officer declared the court adjourned; the sufferers
were hurried back to their cells—some went whither
they would —others whither they would not; but all
dispersed.
A faint and solitary light glanced from a chink
in the prison walls—it came from the narrow cell of
the Italian merchant and his daughter.
The girl slept—ay, slept. Sleep does not always
leave the wretched, to light on lids unsullied with a
tear. Reader, hast thou known intense misery, and,
canst. thou not remember how thou hast felt and wept,
and agonized, until the very excitement of thy misery
wore out the body’s power of endurance, and sleep
like a stupor, a lethargy, bound thee in its chains'?
Into such a sleep had Amelia fallen ; she was lying
on that prison floor, her face pale as if ready for the
grave, the tears yet resting on her cheeks, and over
her sat the merchant leaning, asking himself whether,
treasure that she was, and had ever been to him, he
could wish that sleep to be the sleep of death.
The clanking of a key caught the merchant’s ear ;
a gentle step entered their prison. The father’s first
thought was for his child. He made a motion to
enjoin silence; it was obeyed ; his visitor advanced
with a quiet tread ; the merchant looked upon him
with wonder. Surely not —and yet could it be ?
that his judge—Lord Cromwell, the vicar-general,
stood before him—and stood, not with threatening
in his eye—not with denunciations on his lip, but
took his stand on the other side of poor Amelia,
gazing on her with an eye in which tenderness and
compassion were conspicuous.
Amazement bound up the faculties of the merchant.
He seemed to himself as one that dreameth.
“ Awake, gentle girl, awake,” said Lord Cromwell,
as he stooped over Amelia. “ Let me hear thy
voice once more as it sounded in mine ear in other
days.”
The gentle accents fell too lightly to break the
spell of that heavy slumber ; and the merchant, whose
fears, feelings and confusion formed a perfect chaos,
stooping over his child, suddenly awoke her with the
cry of “Amelia! Amelia! awake, and behold our
judge !”
“ Nay, nay, not thus roughly,” said Lord Crom-
well, but the sound had already recalled Amelia to a
sense of -wretchedness. She half raised herself from
her recumbent posture into a kneeling one, shadowing


her dazzled eyes with her hand, her streaming hair
falling in wild disorder over her shoulders, and thus
resting at the feet of the judge.
“ Look on me, Amelia !” said Lord Cromwell.—
And encouraged by the gentle accents, she raised her
tear-swollen eyes to his face. As she did so, the
vicar-general lifted from his brow the plumed cap,
and revealed the perfect outline of his features.—
And Amelia gazedas if spell bound, until gradually,
shades of doubt, of wonder, of recognition, came
straggling over her countenance, and finally in a
voice of passionate amazement she exclaimed, “ It is
the same ! It is our sick soldier guest !”
“ Even so,” said Cromwell, “ even so my dear and
gentle nurse. He who was then the poor dependent
on your bounty, receiving from your charity his
daily bread as an alms, hath this day presided over
the issues of life and death as your judge; but fear
not, Amelia ; the sight of thee, gentle girl, comes
like the memory of youth and kindly thoughts, across
the sterner mood that lately darkened over me. They
whose voice may influence the destiny of a nation,
gradually lose the memory of gentler thoughts. It
may be Providence hath sent thee to melt me back
again into a softer nature. Many a heart shall be
gladdened, that but for my sight of thee had been
sad unto death. I bethink me, gentle girl, of the
flowers, laden with dew and rich in fragrance, which
thou usedst to lay on my pillow while this head
throbbed with agony of pain upon it, fondly thinking
that their sweetness would be a balm ; and how thou
wert used to steal into my chamber and listen to tales
of this, the land of my home ? Thou art here ; and
how hast thou been welcomed 1 to a prison, and well
nigh to death. But the poor soldier hath a home ;
come thou and thy father, and share it.”
An hour ! who dare prophesy its events ? At the
beginning of that hour, the merchant and his daughter
had been the sorrowful captives of a prison : at its
close, they w r ere the treasured guests of a palace.
Review.
A short account of the character and labours of the Rev.
Samuel Marsden, formerly principal Chaplain of the
Church of England, in T\ew South Wales ; written for the
express purpose of raising funds towards the erection of a
Church in the Parish of Marsfield, Parramatta. Printed
and published by B. Isaacs, George-street, Parramatta,
1844. Price 3s.
Wf. could scarcely, at this commencement of our labours, have
bad placed under our notice a subject of greater interest than
the above newly-publislied little work presents to the colonial
reader. To all who have had the happiness of knowing good
old Mr. Marsden, and to all who have heard of him (and who
has not ?) this short sketch will indeed prove most pleasing.
It was Mr. Max*sden’s lot, during a great portion of his
ministry in this Colony, to he a solitary labourer in the field
allotted to him, and most faithfully and efficiently did he
exert his whole energies in the cause of religion. Opposed,
as he was, on all sides, he faithfully performed his duty, disre-
garding whatever the father of evil might l'aise up to oppose
his efforts. Ever zealous, he lost no opportunity of doing
good : firm, yet tolerant, he earned the good will and the
praise of all good men. In bis daring efforts among the hea-
then inhabitants of this colony, and especially in New Zealand,
where he was peculiarly successful, and where his name is
yet highly venerated, Mr. Marsden displayed an astonishing
/cal and intrepidity in the midst of imminent danger. “Like
Elliott, the venerable apostle of the North American Indians,”
says our author, page 4*9, “ he went from tribe to tribe doing
good, accompanying them in their wanderings through portions
of the country hitherto untrodden hv the feet of Europeans,
and dispensing around him the blessings which the gospel is
designed to impart.”
The best of men have ever been subject to reproach and
calumny. It is not our intention to examine the assertions of
the traducers of this faithful servant of Christ. We are yet
living, as the author remarks in his preface, far too near to
the days of the venerable man to be able to clear away the
mist of partial representation which may as yet obscure cer-
tain portions of his conduct. It will, we doubt not, be done
hereafter to the satisfaction of all who knew and venerated
him.
It is evident that the author has with reluctance compressed
a large stock of materials into so small a space ; though we
may opine that the omission of the precise period of decease
of the subject of this memoir was doubtless unintended.—»
Fearing to anticipate, by a too-lengthened narration, other
works which he leads us to expect of a more elaborate and
mature description by those who may be supposed to have
bad better opportunities of gaining a more correct knowledge
of the life of one who may be justly termed (if unwearied
diligence and ardent zeal can confer merit) the Apostle of the
great South land, the author lias furnished us with but a fore-
taste as it were—a bonne bouclie —of what we may hope for
hereafter.
Tn conclusion, we trust that the respected author’s object—
as expressed in the title page—may be gained. Putting aside
the consideration of the benefit to the inhabitants of Parra-
matta which an additional place of worship would confer, a
nobler monument to the memory of departed worth cannot be
conceived than the erection of a temple dedicated to the honor
of God. We trust that the object which the lamented subject
of this sketch himself so earnestly desired to see accomplished,
and towards which he so liberally contributed, may speedily
be attained.
Varieties
A Money Lender. —He serves you in the present tense;
he lends you on the conditional mood, keeps you in the sub-
junctive, and ruins you in the future.
Pleasures of Imagination. —To think of ice creams
when prostrated beneath the torture of a raging fever. To
fancy yourself the object of particular admiration when you
are walking about with a dish-rag pinned to your coat tails.—
To open a creditor’s note, threatening proceedings, fancying it
an invitation to dinner. Flattering yourself with the hope of
assistance from a rich relative.
“ You can’t complain,” as the highwayman remarked when
he shot the traveller.
Taring the Gilt off Columbus’ Gingerbread.—
Somebody observed that, after all, Columbus did not deserve
so much credit for discovering America; for the continent
was so large he could not well have missed it.
Captain N , who lately arrived at Boston, when going
up to the wharf, ordered an Irishman to throw over the buoy ;
and going below a few minutes, he called to the Irishman and,
asked him if he had thrown the buoy? “No,” said he,
“ indeed I could not catch the boy, but I threw over the
old cook /”
A Spanish writer, speaking of a lady’s black eyes, says,
“ they were in deep mourning for the murders they had
committed.”
A RECEIPT.
A METHOD TO PRESERVE A LARGE STOCK OF \ EAST FOR
SEVERAL MONTHS, EITHER FOR BREAD, CAKES, OR BREWING.
Get a quantity of Yeast and work it well with a whisk until
it becomes liquid and thin ; then get a large wooden dish or
tub, clean and dry, and with a soft brush lay a thin layer of
the yeast on the tub, and turn the mouth downwards, that no
dust may fall upon it, but so that the air may get under to dry
it. "When that coat is very dry lay on another, tiH you have
a sufficient quantity, even two or three inches thick, to serve
for several months, always taking care the former coat is quite
dry before you lay on another. W hen you have occasion to
make use of this Yeast, cut a piece off and lay it in warm
water, stir it together, and it will be fit for use. For brewing,
take several little bundles of birch and dip them into the yeast,
and bang them up to dry, taking care no dust comes on them.
When your beer is ready, throw in a bundle, and it will work
as well as fresh yeast. After whisking it about in the vat,
take out the broom, and hang it up to dry for the next
brewing.


The Moralist.
CONSIDERATION.
Commune with thyself, O man ! and consider w’herefore thou
wast made.
Contemplate thy powers, thy wants, and thy connexions ;
so shalt thou discover the duties of life, and he directed in all
thy ways.
Proceed not to speak or act, before thou hast weighed thy
words, and examined the tendency of every step thou shalt
take; so shall disgrace fly far from thee, and in thy house
shall shame be a stranger; repentance shall not visit thee,
nor sorrow dwell upon thy cheek.
-The thoughtless man hridleth not his tongue ; he speaketli
at random, and is entangled in the foolishness of his own
words.
As one that runneth in haste, and leapetli over a fence,
may fall into a pit on the other side, which he doth not see ;
so is the man that plungetb suddenly into any action, before
he hath considered the consequences thereof.
Hearken, therefore, unto the voice of Consideration ; her
words are the words of wisdom, and her paths shall lead thee
to safety and truth. — DodsJey's Economy of Human Life.
MORAL MAXIMS*
ALPHABETICALLY ARRANGED.
NO. 1.
A bad man, whatever his rank, has a blot in his escutcheon.
A bad style is better than a lewd story.
A bad workman quarrels with his tools.
A had wound heals ; a bad name kills.
A bitter jest is the poison of friendship.
A blithe heart makes a blooming visage.
A blow from a frying-pan blacks one, though it may not hurt.
Absence cools moderate passions, and inflames violent ones.
Abundance is a trouble, but competency brings delight.
Abundance, like want, ruins many.
A burden which one chooses is not felt.
A careless watcher invites a vigilant foe.
It is evident that all government of action is to be obtained
by knowledge; and knowledge, best by gathering many know-
ledges, which is reading! —Sir P. Sydney.
Moderation is commonly firm ; and firmness is commonly
successful. — Johnson.
The number of a man’s enemies are the evidences of his
worth.
* Let not the reader treat with contempt these little remem-
brancers. Impressed as we are with the value of these gems
of wisdom, which have been handed down to us in the form of
apothegms, we gladly take this opportunity of inserting them,
and have no fewer than 2,500 arranged in alphabetical order
for this Miscellany. In our defence, we shall give the fol-
lowing extract from Maunder’s Treasury: —
“To the readers of moral maxims I would say, that I
sincerely hope many of these brief lessons of experience may
be engraven on the tablet of the memory, never to be erased.
What are they but the golden remains, of antiquity, or the
treasures of modern wisdom ? copious in meaning, yet marked
by elegant terseness ; inculcating the precepts of wordly pru-
dence, yet having a tendency to check vice, strengthen virtue,
and lead the mind to a reliance on the Divine will! We are,
perhaps, not duly sensible how much of whatever good may
have marked our career is to be attributed to the influence of
some moral, pious, or prudential maxim, with which our
youthful minds were imbued. Proverbs, however quaintly
expressed, contain the essence of some moral truth or prac-
tical lesson ; they are drawn from real life, and are generally
the fruit of philosophy grafted on the stem of experience.
Indeed, although of late years neglected by most writers, they
were formerly so greatly held in reverence, that scarcely n
hook appeared in which its author did not hear testimony to
their value by the free use he made of them. Nay, we are
told by M. D’lsraeli, that much later even than the reign of
Elizabeth, our ancestors had proverbs always before them,
on everything which had room for a piece of advice on it.
They had them painted on their tapestries, stamped on the
most ordinary utensils, the blades of their knives, the borders
of their plates, and ‘ conned them out of goldsmith’s rings.’ ”
“ Maxims,” says another writer, “ are the verdicts" of
wisdom on the renorts of experience.”
Select Poetry.
THE ROSE AND THE TOMB.
[translated from victor HUGO.]
The tomb to the blushing rose thus said, —
“ Of the tears upon thee by the morning shed,
What makest thou, Flower of Love ?”
The rose, in her turn, thus question’d the tomb, —
“ What makest thou in thy grief of gloom
Of all thou devour'st from above ?”
Said the rose to the tomb,—“ From those precious tears
A scent, that of amber and honey appears,
I breathe out amid the darkness of night.”
And the tomb replied to the rose,—“ Plaintive flower,
Of every soul that I seem to devour
I make a bless’d angel of light.”
THE BANKRUPT.
I saw at morn a man, in pride of wealth,
At ease in his possessions ; at his door
Obsequious stood the crowds whom fortune dooms
To beg—strange boon! —for hampered leave to toil;
And to and fro there passed the men of trade,
With hollow smile, and ready compliment,
And every art to speed their merchandise.
’Twas all prosperity; upon the world
He smiled in satisfaction, and the world
Complacently returned a mutual smile.
I passed at noon, and lo ! the scene was changed :
His bark had sunk in that devouring sea,
Whose treacherous waves are, ever and anon,
As fitful winds of commerce bid them heave,
With blasted hopes and wrecks of fortune strewed.
An air of sadness seemed, already there :
Neighbours were seen with mystery in their looks,
And°whispered words were heard. Not under-breath,
But loudly shall to-morrow hear the tale.
Men cast not off at once deep-nourished thoughts
Of one whose credit long unshaken stood—
Of one who seemed to sit on high secure.
But ah, poor man ! thy name must suffer soon,
Thy wit, thy wisdom, goodness, all thou wast,—
Sad diminution in the public eye.
The once wide circle of thy summer friends,
Narrow’d and broken, shall not half suffice
To shield thee from the world’s ungenerous scorn.
I see thee pace thy house of merchandise
In horrid stupefaction, straining hard
To fathom the deep gulf of thy distress;
Thy soul a chaos wild, thy brain on fire,
And none, alas ! with power to comfort near.
Go, seek thy home; thy wife will gently chide
Thy long delay ; but soon her eye shall mark
Deep agitation on thy brow ; thy words
Shall fall portentous on her startled ear.
Happy, if Hope celestial, Faith sublime.
And strong connubial love, her soul inspire
To meet unshrinkingly, as woman can,
This dire reverse, and ease thy labouring breast
Of more than half the mighty load it bears.
Be comforted, take courage, for thou may’st,—
All is not lost, if conscience still be thine,
And dares not whisper in thy secret ear,
That this dark hour comes with just vengeance fraught,
As punishment for wealth by fraud obtained,
Or judgment for prosperity abused.
J. B.
TO A NEW BORN BABE.
[FROM THE PERSIAN.]
In mother’s arms, a helpless, new born child,
Weeping—thou lay’st, whilst all around thee smil’d ;
So live, that, sinking in thy last long sleep,
Thou then may’st smile, whilst all around the weep !
HAFIZ.
SELF-LOVE.
Each has his fault we readily allow :
To this decree our dearest friends must bow;
One’s too careless, another’s 100 correct,
And all, save'our sweet self, have some defect.


WEEKLY MISCELLANY.
OURSELVES.
Thursday, June 27, 1844.
Onc e again we offer ourselves to the notice of our
subscribers.
In submitting our new Periodical to the notice of
the public, we avow our wish to become a general
favourite among ail classes of society ; and, as an
eminent ana favorite writer of the mother country
expresses it, “ to assist the enquiring, animate the
struggling, and do good to all.”
Our object is to diffuse knowledge in its varied
forms of Literature, Morals, and Politics. Of the
first, we have perhaps said sufficient in our primary
address. In the varied forms of Literature, we trust
our columns will be so graced as to entice the youth
of Australia to taste the sweets of Science, and cul-
tivate the love of Useful Arts. It is our wish to
develope the natural resources of the Colonies, as
being not only beneficial to “ the land we live in,”
but also highly advantageous to our parent country.
As to Morals, we state, to prevent misunder-
standing, that our intention is principally to adopt
that standard of morality which was upheld in the
Guardian , Tatler, and Spectator , of former and
unrivalled celebrity, adapted to the present state of
education and public feeling.
Of the third head, it is, in this portion of our pages,
more peculiarly our province to submit our views.
Our Political principles may be thus defined : —The
admiration and defence of “ the art of governing
well;” so that whatever may be considered for the
benefit of the people in the Colonies of Great Britain,
considered as so many integral parts of the Empire,
shall meet with ready attention, and be submitted for
discussion in the pages of this Journal, to stand or
fall, according to its own merits.
“ Our aim’s our country’s good.”
And while, as sincere Loyalists, we conscientiously
submit “to the powers that be,” we will ever
unflinchingly maintain the rights of a free people,
belonging, as they do, to that glorious nation whose
very atmosphere and soil give freedom to the slave.
Firm in our principles, we will maintain them
without the self-destructive rancour of bigotry, nor will
we sacrifice them at the shrine of expediency—that
bane in the true path of political e'conomy—trusting
to the good taste of the Australian public to encourage
us in our duty
In conclusion, we solicit the support of a generous
public : we will do our utmost to deserve it. We
crave indulgence for various deficiencies which may
be observed in the first few numbers of our publi-
cation, which, we are sure, will be granted by those
who consider the difficulty of readily starting a work
of this real magnitude. We trust that our own friends
and correspondents will rally round us until our
amb tion he gratified, and our wishes satisfied, by
see n jthe Colonial Literary Joum /gradually become
a standard work of sound principles, of the strictest
Integrity, and a faithful chronicler of the Australian
Golonies.
Domestic Intelligence.
LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL.
THURSDAY, JUNE 20.
On Thursday the “ Aborigines’ Evidence Bill,”
introduced by the Attorney-General, was read a se-
cond time. It was opposed by Mr. Lowe and other
members of the Council. The following extract
from Mr. Lowe’s speech we insert without note or
comment, believing that any notice upon our
part, could neither add nor detract from its sterling
qualities: —“ What manner of witnesses were these
which his honorable and learned friend the Attorney-
General sought to introduce into our Courts ? Only-
picture their examination. See the wild savage of
the woods standing amid the hum and press of civi-
lized men: among them, but not of them. See the
trembling prisoner in vain endeavouring to gather his
future fate from the stolid apathy or malignant scowl
of those scarce human lineaments. Hear his evidence
given through an interpreter, in a language of which
all we know is that it is destitute of abstract ideas
and of those, nicely defined terms which distinguish
the almostimperceptible limits of guilt and misfortune.
See him become at once the supreme arbiter of life
and death : a life of whose end and author he is alike
ignorant, a death of whose fearful secrets he knows
nothing—see him ready, from savage waywardness,
from puerile petulance, or for a bribe so paltry, that
the meanest wretch whoever perjured himself for hire
would spurn with contempt and disgust such a crime
for such a price—see him ready to trample on a being
of whose unspeakable importance to accountable agents
he has never heard, and by false witness to hurry a fel-
low-creature into the presence of that God whose very
name is a stranger to his language—see him, finally,
after the last act of tragedy is over, standing on the
steps of the Court, and, with his national talent for
mimicry, representing to the admiring crowd the ver-
dict of the foreman, the sentence of the judge, and the
thrilling appeal of the prisoner for mercy : see all
this, and then turn from the sickening mockery, and
say, Great is the majesty of British Justice ! surely
this is a wise and an understanding people ; dear in
their eyes is the blood of their citizens ! For his
part, rather than have recourse to a system so unwise,
so immoral and anti-Christian, he would roll back
the ages that were past, and return to the whimsical
superstitions, and it might be absurd practices, of our
ancestors. If accused of a crime, he would rather
take to the lance and sword of our forefathers—he
would rather place his naked foot on the burning
ploughshares—he would rather strive to swim with
fettered limbs in the treacherous sea—he would rather
dare the ordeal of battle, fire, or water—- than submit
his life and fair fame to a test so hideously absurd.
It had been thought by the wise and good of other
days that these judicial combats and ordeals, made in
the fullest faith, and invoking the direct intervention
of the Almighty, might perhaps be overruled by his
Providence. He dared not subscribe to, though he
did not wholly blame, their faith ; but this he would
say, that he would prefer them to the investigation
proposed by Her Majesty’s Attorney-General. Let
him fall into the hand of the Lord, for His mercies
are great! but let him not fall into the hand of man—


of man did he say 1 Oh no, not of man—of savage
and blood-thirsty cannibals.”
FRIDAY, JUNE 21.
There was an unusually large attendance of mem-
bers. thirty having been counted as present.
A lengthened debate arose on the subject of griev-
ances. Mr. Wentworth moved “ that a select com-
mittee be appointed to enquire into and report upon
all grievances not connected with the lands of the
territory,” and spoke at some length with his usual
bitterness on the “ Civil List,” ‘ 4 Expense of the
Convict Establishments,” “ Utter want of a respon-
sible Government in this Colony,” “ Municipal
Institutions,” “ The present tenure of office of the
Judges of this Colony,” “Claims against govern-
ment.” Committee appointed ; —Messrs. Wentworth,
Lang, Bradley, Dumaresq, Lawson, Lord, Sir T.
Mitchell, Suttor, Wiudeyer, and the Attorney-Gene-
ral.
A committee was also appointed on the Public
Education Bill.
CITY COUNCIL.
MONDAY.
Present: The Mayor ; Aldermen Allen, Broughton,
and Macdermott; Councillors Smidmore, Jenkins,
Driver, Brown, Holden, Cowlishaw, Agars, Little,
Ryan, Thurlow, Coyle, and Jones.
After the minutes of the last meeting had been
read by the Town Clerk,
Alderman Broughton brought up a report from
the Police Committee, upon the various departments
of the police—judicial, clerical, and executive. The
report complained that the attention of the force, and
its officers, was greatly occupied bj duties not strictly
civic—such as the attendance at Hyde Park Barracks
and the Quarter Sessions, the apprehension of run-
aways, &c. With reference to the executive depart-
ment, the great inconvenience resulting to the Council
and its Committees from the absence of all knowledge
relative to its internal regulation and control was
much dwelt upon, and a good deal of argument was
contained in the report to show that the police force
ought to be controlled by the same authority it was
paid by. The report was adopted.
Mr. Agars moved, “ That this Council do take
into consideration, as soon as possible, the propriety
of the general lighting of the city, and of raising the
assessment necessary for that purpose.” The motion
was negatived on division.
The report of the City Surveyor, relative to the
erection of gas lamps in Pitt-street was read, from
which it appeared that the expense of six lamps, in
Pitt-street North, including the lighting of the same
for twelve months, would be £45. After some con-
versation, the decision was postponed till the next
meeting of the Council, in order that the assessment
required for this purpose might be ascertained.
The reports of the Finance Committee, recom-
mending the payment of £95 Os. Id., and £l7B
14s. 6d. for accounts, were adopted.
The salaries of the officers under the Corporation
were ordered to be paid on the Ist July next.
A letter was read from Mr. Marsh, denying the
authority of the District Surveyor to give him notice
not to build within twelve feet of the kerb in Mac-
quarie-street South, on the ground that it was not
proclaimed by the Government or came within the
operation of the Alignment Act. On the motion of
Mr. Cowlishaw, it was agreed, that in order to
ensure regularity in the alignment of the streets, the
City Surveyor might be instructed to prepare a list
of the various streets not yet proclaimed, in order
to constitute a proper alignment throughout the city.
The Town Clerk was instructed to advertise for
candidates for the office of wharfinger at the Market
Wharf, the salary of which was fixed at £l2O.
A chevau de frise was ordered to be erected over
the gates of the George-street Market.
The Council adjourned till Monday next.
LECTURES.
The present lecture season has commenced -with
much spirit. The programmes which have been
issued by the Commercial Reading Rooms, and the
Mechanics’ Institute, embody a great array of talent.
It is truly gratifying to find gentlemen of superior
abilities thus standing prominently forward to assist
in the good work of enlightening the minds of those,
who—from the accidents of birth, or the freaks of
fortune have been deprived of the inestimable
blessing of education. This method of imparting
knowledge is extremely popular ; and although, per-
haps, the great object of lectures is more to create a
taste for the studies of which they treat, than to impart
a full knowledge concerning those studies ; still there
cannot exist a doubt of their being extremely beneficial
in awakening the ambition of the young, and, by
these means, calling into play those talents, of the
possession of which they were previously ignorant.
“ Study is like the heaven’s glorious sun,
It cannot be deep-search’d with saucy looks;”
And if, in arousing our dormant faculties, lectures
lead us to search for more enduring and satisfactory
acquirements in knowledge, it does much and merits
our warmest support. The path to knowledge is steep,
rugged, and difficult. The summit to which we
aspire is towering and lofty. There is much toil to
be endured, many difficulties to encounter ere we can
reach it. How many, by endeavouring to evade these
obstacles, fall short of their aim ! There are resting
places, however, provided for the weak and the feeble
• —for the weaiy and the faint—by which they may
renew their strength and pursue their journey. Some
tire and droop by the way through reluctance or in-
dolence ; some through natural infirmities , few—
how few—ever gain the highest pinnacle of their
ambition.
The lectures which have been delivered at the city
Theatre have been numerously attended, more so,
indeed, than any course previously delivered. While,
therefore, we hail this event as one eminently calcu-
lated to extend the usefulness of the Institution, under
whose auspices, and for whose benefit, the lectures
were delivered ; we are also at liberty to congratulate
ourselves as a Colony, upon the growing interest
which is taken by the community in this most excel-
lent and popular method of imparting instruction.
School of Arts. —Mr. S. P. Hill will deliver the
first of his lectures on Oratory, on Monday evening
next, in the hall of the above Institution. There are
few subjects of more importance to the youth of a
rising colony like ours. We are glad to perceive that
the committee of the society, have caused backs to be
placed to all the seats. This improvement was sadly
wanted.


SYDNEY COLLEGE.
Prompted by our zeal for the welfare of the rising
generation, in whose hands will be placed the moral
and political destiny of a rising nation, we intend,
occasionally, to bring to public notice, the principal
educational establishments of the Colony, where our
views are met with courtesy. In furtherance of this
object, we have been favoured, by the kindness of the
Principal, with a synopsis of the Sydney College
Exhibitions, which we insert as follows :—-
EXHIBITIONS, THIRD YEAR.
Examination days, 2 d and 3 d of December, 1844.
Subjects— ln literis humanioribus.
Cl. I.
Euripidis Orestes.
Livii Hist., Lib. I.
Juvenalis, Sat. XIII.
Latin Verses —Pope’s Ode on Solitude (in any of the Horatian
metres.)
English Verses —Subject—“ My native land, good night.”
E n -41 ish E ssa y—S übj ect—
Raro, qui se vixisse beatum
Dicat, et exacto coritentus tempore, vita
Cedat, uti conviva satur, reperire queamus.
Cl. 11.
Horatii Od., Lib. 1., 11.
C. Sallustii Catilina.
Odes of Anacreon in Greek.
Those who do not read Greek in this class, may bring up
Tomline’s Introduction to the study of the Scriptures instead.
A copy of Latin Hexameters and Pentameters. Subject—
“ Moses, from Mount Nebo, beholds the promised land, which
be is not allowed to enter.”
English Verses—Subject—“ Peace o’er the world her olive
wand extends.”
English Essay—Subject—“ Raro antecedentem scelesturn
Deseruit pede Pcena claudo.”
In Rebus Matiiematicis,
Cl. I.
Arithmetic, ad libitum. Algebra, Quadratic and Cubic
Equations, with those of the 4ih, sth, and 6th degree. Every
case of Arithmetical and Geometrical Progressions; Binomial
Theorem; Indeterminate Problems, and the Summation of
Series. Geometry —First six books of Euclid, and Plane
Trigonometry, according to Snowball or Hymers.
Cl. 11.
Arithmetic, ad libitum. Algebra —Simple and Quadratic
Equations entire; the investigation of formulae for every case
of Arithmetical and Geometrical Progression. Geometry —
First five books of Euclid.
There will be two prizes of the value of fifteen and thirteen
sovereigns each, for the First Class, if there be four can-
didates ; if less, only one prize, of the value of fifteen pounds.
There will be two prizes of the value of twelve and ten
sovereigns, for the Second Class, if there be four competitors;
should there be only one prize for the First Class, there will
be three for the Second, of the values of thirteen, twelve, and
ten pounds, should six competitors come forward
The prizes will be presented, and those who have succeeded
will assume their academic dress, on the second day of the
public College Examinations.
The First Class Exhibitions are open to any of the colonial
youth, not above seventeen years of age, although not students
of the Sydney College.
Those of the] Second Class likewise will be open to the
pupils of other schools, under certain limitations which will
be obviously necessary, and of which information can be
obtained from Mr. Braim, at the Head Master’s House
If parties not students of the Institution succeed, they
must, as is usual in all such cases, remove to the College.
The New Judge. —Private letters state tliat Mr.
John Node Dickenson, of the English bar, had been
appointed to the Supreme Court of New South Wales.
The learned gentleman was to leave England by the
packet on May Ist, and may consequently be expected
here in September.— Herald.
ENGLISH NEWS.
LATEST NEWS FROM ENGLAND.
The majority of our readers will have read with
much interest the accounts given in the Sydney Morn-
ing Herald, of the lengthened trial of O’Connell and
others for conspiracy. We take from that paper,
published on the arrival of the Georgetown, the result
of this trial which closed on Monday, February 12th,
having lasted 25 days, when a verdict finding the
defendants GUILTY, w r as returned.
The following is a copy of the “ issue paper”
shewing the finding of the Jury on each count: —
First and second counts, for unlawfully and seditiously
conspiring to raise and create discontent and disaffection
amongst the Queen’s subjects, and to excite such subjects to
hatred and contempt of, and to unlawful and seditious opposi-
tion to, the government and constitution, and to stir up
jealousies, hatred, and ill-will between different classes of her
Majesty’s subjects, and especially to promote amongst her
Majesty’s subjects in other parts of the United Kingdom,
especially in England, and to create discontent and disaffection
amongst divers of her Majesty’s subjects serving in the army,
and to cause and aid in causing divers subjects unlawfully and
seditiously to meet and assemble together in large numbers, at
various times, and at different places within Ireland, for the
unlawful and sedhious purpose of obtaining by means of the
intimidation, to be thereby caused, and by means of the exhi-
bition and demonstration of great physical force at such
meetings, changes and alterations in the government, laws,
and constitution, as by law established, and to bring into
hatred and disrepute the courts by law established in Ireland
for the administration of justice, and to diminish the confi-
dence of her Majesty’s subjects in the administration of the
law therein, with the intent to induce them to withdraw the
adjudication of their differences with, and their claims upon
each other, from the cognizance of the courts of law, and sub-
ject them to the judgment and detei ruination of the tribunals
to be constituted and contrived for the purpose.
Guilty—Daniel O’Connell, Richard Barrett, and Charles
Gavan Duffy, omitting the words “ unlawfully and seditiously,”
before the words “to meet and assemble.” Not guilty—
Daniel O’Connell, Richard Barrett, and Charles Gavan Duffy,
as to the words, “ unlawfully and seditiously,” before the
words “to meet and assemble.” Guilty—John O’Connell,
Thomas Steele, Thomas Matthew Ray, John Gray, omitting
the words “unlawfully and seditiously,” before the words “ to
meet and assemble,” and omitting the words “ and to excite
discontent and disaffection amongst divers of her Majesty’s
subjects serving in the army.’’
Not guilty—John O’Connell, Thomas Steele; Thomas Mat-
thew Ray, and John Gray, as to words “unlawfully and sedi-
tiously” before the words “to meet and assemble,” and not
guilty as to the words “ to excite discontent and disaffection
amongst divers of her Majesty’s subjects serving in the army.”
Guilty—The Rev. Thomas Tierney from the commencement
so far and including the words “ especially in England,” and
not guilty of the remainder of the first and second counts.
Third count; For unlawfully and seditiously conspiring to
raise and create discontent and disaffection amongst the
Queen’s subjects, and to excite such subjects to hatred and
contempt of, and to unlawful and seditious opposition to, the
government and constitution, and to stir up jealousies, hatred,
and ill-will between different classes of her Majesty’s subjects
in Ireland, feelings of ill- will and hostility amongsther Majesty’s
subjects in other parts of the United Kingdom, especially fh En-
gland, and to excite discontent and disaffection amongst divers of
her Majesty’s subjects serving in the army ; and to cause and
aid in causing divers subjects to meet and assemble together
in large numbers at various times and at different places
within Ireland for the unlawful and seditious puipose of
obliging, by means of the intimidation to be thereby caused,
and by means of the exhibition and demonstration of great
physical forfce a£ such meetings, changes and alterations in the
government, laws, and constitution as by law established:
and to bring into hatred and disrepute the courts by law
established in Ireland for the administration of justice, and to
diminish the confidence of her Majesty’s subjects in the
administration of the law therein, with intent to induce her
Majesty’s subjects to withdraw the adjudication of their diffe-
rences with, and claims upon each other, from the cognisance


of the courts of law, and subject the same to the judgment
and determination of other tribunals to be constituted and
contrived for that purpose.
Gi U i 1 ty —Daniel O’Connell, Richard Barrett, Charles Gavan
Duff) 7 , John O’Connell.
Guil*y—John O’Connell, Thomas Steele, Thomas Matthew
Ilav, and John Gray, omitting the words “and to excite dis-
content and disaffection amongst divers of her Majesty’s
subjects serving in the army.”
Not guilty—John O’Connell, Thomas Steele, Thomas Mat-
thew Ray, and John Gray, as to the words “ and to excite
discontent and disaffection amongst divers of her Majesty’s
subjects serving in the army.”
(i u i!ty The Rev. Thomas Tierney, from the commence-
ment so far and including the words “ especially in England.”
Not guilty : The llev. Thomas Tierney, as to remainder of
this count.
4th count —Conspiring to raise and create discontent and
disaffection amongst the Queen’s subjects, and to excite
such subjects to hatred and contempt of, and to unlawful and
seditious opposition to, the government and constitution, and
also to stir up jealousy, hatred, and ill-will between the different
classes of said subjects, and especially to promote amongst the
subjects of Ireland feelings of ill-will and hostility towards
the subjects in other parts of the United Kingdom, and espe-
cially in England, and to cause, and aid in causing, divers
■subjects to meet and assemble in large numbers at various
times and different places in Ireland, for the unlawful and
seditious purpose of obtaining, by means of the intimida-
tion to be thereby caused, and by means of the exhibition and
demonstration of great physical force at such meetings, changes-
in the government and constitution as by law established.
Guilty, all, but the Rev. Mr. Tierney not guilty.
Guilty —Rev. Thomas Tierney from the commencement,
and so far as including the words “especially in England.”
Not guilty—-Rev. Thomas Tierney of the remainder of this
count.
sth count —Eor unlawfully conspiring to raise and create
discontent and disaffection amongst the subjects, and to excite
the subjects to hatred and contempt of, and unlawful and sedi-
tious opposition to, the government and constitution, and also
to stir up jealousies, hatred and ill-will between different classes
of the subjects, and especially feelings of hostility and ill-will
against her Majesty’s subjects in England.
All guilty.
6th count—For unlawfully conspiring to cause, and aid in
causing, divers subjects to meet and assemble in large num-
bers, at various times, and at different places in Ireland, for
the unlawful and seditious purpose of obtaining by the exhibi-
tion of great physical force at such meetings, changes and
alterations in the government, laws, and constitution, as by
law established.
All guilty, but the Rev. Air. Tierney not guilty.
7th count—For unlawfully conspiring to cause, and aid in
causing, divers subjects of the Queen, to meet in large numbers
at various times and at different places in Ireland, for the
unlawful and seditious purpose .of obtaining, by means of the
intimidation to be thereby caused, and by means of the exhibi-
tion of great physical force at such meetings, changes and
alterations in the government, laws, and constitution of this
realm as by law established, and especially, by the means
aforesaid to bring about and accomplish a dissolution of the
legislative union now subsisting between Great Britain and
Ireland.
Guilty—All but the Rev Mr. Tierney.
Bth count —For unlawfully conspiring to bring into hatred
and contempt the tribunals by law established in Ireland for
the administration of justice, and to diminish the confidence
of her Majesty’s subjects in Ireland in the administration of
the law therein, with intent to induce the subjects to withdraw
the adjudication of their differences with, and claims upon
each other, from the cognizance of the tribunals by law estab-
lished, and to submit the same to the judgment and determi-
nation of other tribunals to be constituted and contrived for
that purpose.
Guilty—All, but the Rev. Thomas Tierney not guilty.
9th count—For unlawfully conspiring to bring into hatred
and disrepute the tribunals by law established in Ireland for
the administration of justice, to diminish the confidence of
Her Majesty’s subjects in Ireland in the administration of the
law therein, and to assume and usurp the prerogative of the
Crown in the establishment of courts for the administration of
the law.
All guilty ; but the Rev. Thomas Tierney not guilty.
10th count — For unlawfully conspiring to bring into hatred
and disrepute the tribunals by law established in Ireland, for
the administration of justice, and to diminish the confidence
of Her Majesty’s subjects in Ireland, in the administration ot
the law therein.
GU i 11 V —All, but Rev. Thomas Tierney not guilty.
11th count—For unlawfully conspiring to raise and procure
large numbers of persons to meet together in divers places at
divers times in Ireland, and by means of unlawful, seditious,
and inflammatory"speeches ana addresses,. to be made and de-
livered at the said several places on the said several times, and
also, by means of the publishing, and causing to be published
amongst Her Majesty’s subjects, divers unlawful, malicious,
and seditious writings, and compositions to intimidate tne
Lords spiritual and temporal, and the Commons of tne Par-
liament of the United Kingdom, and thereby to effect and
bring about changes and alterations in the laws and constitu-
tion of this realm, as by law established.
All guilty; but the Rev. Thomas Tierney not gunty.
The speech, which is generally admitted to have
been the most effective delivered during the trial,
was that of Mr. Whiteside, which is stated to
have been a masterpiece of argumentative eloquence.
Mr. O’Connell spoke in his own defence —his speech
fills eleven columns in the Morning Chronicle; it was
considered inferior to the generality of his efforts upon
important occasions. The defendants called very few
witnesses. The Solicitor-General took two days
for his reply, and the Chief Justice two days to
charge the Jury. On Saturday afternoon, the Jury
retired about four o’clock, and after a few hours’
absence returned with their verdict; as it was not in
legal form they were again directed to retire, and as
they had not returned into Court at twelve o clock,
the defendants objected to the verdict being received
on a Sunday, and the Jury were locked up until
Monday morning, when they delivered the finding
we have given above.
As soon as the verdict was received,
The Chief Justice said, I suppose I need not detaiu the
jury further ?
The Attorney-General: No, my Lord, but your Lordship
will record the verdict.
The Chief Justice addressing the Jury, said: Gentlemen,
the pains and attention you have paid this case from the
beginning to the end -at great inconvenience and loss of time,
in being°prcvented from following your usual pursuits for
nearly a month in this most unprecedented case, are certainly
deserving the highest praise ; but I am very sorry the Court
have no power to order you compensation. The Act ot I arlia-
ment does not warrant it; there was no law made to meet the
necessities of such an extraordinary case as this has been, and
it is a duty imposed on every member of society, who
take their turn when called on. Ido hope that all other
jurors who may hereafter be called on to attend, will follow the
example you have pointed out to them in your attention during
the whole progress of this trial. It is very cieditable ; but I
am sorry to say, that all I can do is to thank you for your
attendance. .
The Jury were then discharged, and were conveyed to their
respective residences, in covered cars, provided by the sheriff.
Mr. Moore, QC.-I have now to apply, my Lords—and I
do not anticipate any objection on the part of the Crown—that
the traversers should be furnished with a copy of tne finding
handed in by the Jury.
Chief Justice—l do not suppose there can be any objection—
the clerk of the Crown will furnish you with a copy.
The Court then adjourned to the first day of next term
(15th April.)
On the first day of term, a four-day rule for judg-
ment will he served on the traversers, and on its
expiration the Attorney -General will pray the
judgment of the court on them. It is stated, how-
ever, by those in the confidence of the defendants, that
before the expiration of the fonr-day rule, a motion
on the part of the traversers will made in arrest of
judgment. Should the court decide against this


motion, judgment will be passed, and then a writ of
error will be sued on the part of the traversers, Avhich
will be argued before the twelve judges ; and should
their decision be adverse, an appeal will lie to the
House of Lords. The question is whether pending
that appeal the court will proceed to carry judgment
on the traversers into execution. The grounds of the
application in arrest of judgment will be—lst. A
misdescription of a juror’s name. 2nd. The omis-
sion of proof of any unlawful act done by the
traversers in the county and city of Dublin. 3rd.
That no judicial act should have been done after
twelve o’clock on Saturday night by the Court,
whereas the Court after that hour adjourned to Mon-
day.
There was very little excitement caused by the
verdict : the mob outside the Court gave w r hat is called
“ a peculiar Irish howl,” but there was no outbreak
of any kind.
Mr. 0 Connell left Ireland the day after the trial,
and took his seat in the House of Commons, where he
presented one hundred and ninety-six petitions, hav-
ing three hundred and eighty-seven thousand signa-
tures, praying for a repeal of the union : he also
spoke on the motion for a committee to enquire into
the state of Ireland. Our accounts say that he was
received in the most friendly and triumphant manner
by the House.
In the House of Lords the Marquis of Normanby
moved for a committee to enquire into the state of
Ireland, which was refused by a majority of 175
to 97.
A similar motion was made in the House of Com-
mons by Lord John Uussell. The debate lasted nine
nights, and ended in ministers having a triumphant
majority of 99 —the numbers being, for the motion,
225; against it, 324. The ministers declared that
every concession had been made to Ireland that jus-
tice demanded, and they should oppose any attempts
to interfere with the Irish Church, although they
would not object to additional grants to put Maynooth
College upon a more efficien^footing.
The conduct of Admiral Du Petit Thouars in tak-
ing possession of Tahiti had attracted considerable
attention. The French government had entirely re-
pudiated the Admiral’s conduct, and published an
official notification that he had exceeded his authority
and the island must be delivered back to Queen
Pomare. The French opposition members were very
angry at this determination, which they considered
was truckling to the English. In the Chamber of
Deputies, M. Guizot said that the Admiral had acted
with “ neither prudence or wisdom.” Captain Bruat
will, therefore, have to return to the Marquesas.
His Serene Highness the Grand Duke of Saxe
Coburg and Gotha, the father of Prince Albert, ex-
pired suddenly on the 29th January. His Serene
Highness was uncle and father-in-law to the Queen,
father to Prince Albert, and brother to the King of
the Belgians and the Duchess of Kent. He had just
reached his 60 h year. He succeeded his father in
the year 1805, but, from his being in arms against
Napoleon, he was precluded from possessing himself
of his sequestrated property until the year 1813. He
commanded the sth corps of the allied army, and
Mayence was surrendered to his arms. He was mar-
ried first to Louisa, only daughter of Augustus, Duke
of Saxe Gotha and Aiienburgh, by whom he had
issue, Ernest, Hereditary Prince, now reigning Duke,
and Prin.ce Albert. He married secondly Antoinette
daughter of Alexander, Duke of Mecklenburgh, by
whom he has left no issue. His Royal Highness was
suddenly carried off with cramp in the stomach.—
The intelligence proved a great shock to the Queen
and her illustrious Consort, inasmuch as no previous
intimation had been received in London of the illness
of his Serene Highness.
Trade continued brisk, and money was plentiful.
Speculation was getting rife. A concerted plan to
raise the price of cotton had been detected and ex-
posed. Railway shares were rapidly increasing in
price, and new lines were talked about. In alluding
to the revival of speculation, the Leeds IWercury re-
marks— “In the article of sheep’s wool there is no
ground for advance, so far as we are aware, but the
improved state of trade; and this would scarcely
justify the very rapid advance that has taken place,
and that has been established at the recent wool sales
in London. ’ This referred to the advance of two
pence a pound which took place at the February sales.
There was no sale advertised for March.
A very strong opposition to the anti-corn-law
league was being organised. Meetings were being
held, and funds raised, in all the agricultural districts
of England and Scotland. The farmers would appear
to have learned a lesson from their enemies, and to be
trying their hands at a little agitation.
By the following paragraph from the Standard, it
would appear that some new regulations respecting
Colonial Customs’ Duties are in contemplation :
“We observe with satisfaction that Lord Stanley has
sent out very special instructions to the Governors of
the Colonies, to furnish him with all necessary infor-
mation, to enable him to judge clearly of the extent
and effect of the duties imposed upon imports and ex-
ports by the various Colonial legislatures.”
Daniel on his Defence. — “ The utter failure of
O’Connell’s speech in defending himself, is a proof of
what we have frequently maintained, that it is only
when he has a mob for his auditors, and such subjects
as are adapted for a mob for the matter of his oratory,
that he displays any particular powers of mind.
Debar him the use of course jests, of vulgar ribaldry,
of personal scurility, of the license to make whatever
assertion may suit the purpose of the moment, and
above all, of the sustaining spirit which is derived
from the conciousness that say what he will, he is sur-
rounded by a thousand throats ready to roar applause ;
deprive him of these aids, and he sinks at once below
the level of mediocrity. Hence the very little im-
pression which be produced in Parliament, except the
unenviable one which accompanied his earlier displays
when he attempted to introduce some Irish flowers of
speech into that assembly. He found the soil uncon-
genial ; and soon afterwards he discovered that Ireland,
and not the House of Commons, w T as his arena. He
seemed to be quite aware that on any other dung-
hill than his own, his crowing would be lame and
spiritless, for he began by- bespeaking attention to his
‘ plain prosaic style’—unless, indeed, this was in-
tended for a sneer at the ornate rhetoric of Mr. Shiel.
The happiest part of Mr. O’Connell’s defence was
where he stood up for his gallantry to the fair sex,
and denied that when referring to the Queen’s Speech,
he used the word ‘Judy’ ” — John Bull.


In consequence of the press of English news this
week, we present our readers with but a slender ab-
stract of the Legislative and City Co»ncils. We
shall, in future numbers, give a fuller report.
Lectures on Astronomy. —Mr. T. L. Dodd de-
livered the last of his present course of lectures on
Astronomy in the hall of the School of Arts on Mon-
day evening last. They have all been well attended.
We have been informed that the present is Mr. D.’s
first essay in lecturing ; and consequently it would
be extremely unfair to judge harshly of his perfor-
mance. Those gentlemen who, like the lecturer, have
undertaken to sustain this somewhat arduous character
are well entitled to our praise ; for the criterion by
which wc should judge of their efforts, i's the n.otive
rather than the merit. We have no doubt, prior to
his next appearance, Mr. Dodd will be enabled to
divest himself of some portion of his extreme diffi-
dence ; in which case we prognosticate a more fortu-
nate effort, as well for himself, as his audience. We
heartily wish him success.
POST OFFICE BUSINESS.
Some idea of the amount of business done at the
Post Office, during the present week, may be formed
from the following statement of the number of letters
and papers received by the last three vessels from
London :
Mary Sharpe —Letters. 3,244
Newspapers 5,262
Georgetown —Letters 8.269
Newspapers 9,004
Enmore —Letters 1,502
Newspapers ». 782
Total number of covers from England 23,070
It must he remembered, that in addition to this
there is the current inland business to attend to, and
that mails are constantly arriving from the various
outports and adjoining colonies.— Herald.
Shipping EntdUgcncc.
ARRIVALS.
June 20. —The steamer Maitland, Captain Parsons, from
Port Macquarie, with 27 bales of wool, &c.
June 21.—The schooner Wanderer, Captain Burns, from
Launceston, the 15th instant with grain, &c.
June 21.—The schooner Abercrombie, Captain Petley, from
Port Phillip the 16th instant, with sundries.
June 22.—The brig William, Captain Thom, from Laun-
ceston, the 16th instant, with grain, &c.
June 22. —The barque Georgetown, Captain Bell, from the
Downs, sth March, and Cape of Good Hope 9th May, with a
general cargo.
June 23.—The brig Emma, Captain Fox, from Port
Adelaide, the 13th instant, with sundries.
June 23.—The steamer William the Fourth, Captain Wise-
man, from Clarence River, with sundries.
June 24. —The schooner Waterlily, Captain Hayle, from
Hobart Town, with sundries.
June 25—The barque Enmore, Captain Ellis, from the
Downs, 22nd February, and the Cape of Good Hope 9th May,
with a general cargo.
DEPARTURES.
June 20.—The steamer Sovereign, Captain Cape for More-
ton Bay, with a general cargo.
June 23.—The brig Calypso, Captain Harrold, for Launces-
ton, with sundries.
June 24.—The schooner Hawk, Captain Brown, for Adelaide
via Port Phillip with sundries.
June 25. The schooner William, Captain Freeman, for
Moreton Bay, with a general cargo.
Births.
On the 7th instant, at the Manse, Port Macquarie, Mrs.
Purves, of a son, still born.
At ' aitland Fast, on the 11th instant, the wife of Dr.
Francis Campbell of a son.
On the Kith inst.,at her residence, Macquarie-street, Hobart
Town, the lady of Captain Hayle, of the Waterlily, of a son.
At Clareville, the residence of her brother-in-law, Mr. C.
Elliott, on the 18th instant, Mrs. Richard Watson, of the
“ Robin Hood,” near Campelltown, of a son.
On the 19th June, at her residence, Lower George-street,
Mrs. J. G. Raphael, of a daughter.
On the 21st instant, at her residence, Hunter-street, Mrs.
G. B. Goodman, of a daughter.
On the 21st instant, at Beulah, North Shore, Mrs. William
Gibbes, of a son.
JfHarvtages.
At the residence of Mr. J. J. Howell, Arkstone Forest, on
the 12th of June, by the Rev. C. F. Brigstock, Yass, Mr.
James Bootfield, formerly of the Royal Navy, to Miss Mary
Waddell, sister to the wife of the Rev. Robert Cartwright, of
Gunning.
By special license, at St. Philip’s Church, on the 20th inst.
by the Rev. Dr. Cowper, Richard J. Hunt, to Amelia Glenton,
youngest daughter of the late Mrs. Baker, of Prince-street,
Sydney.
On the 23rd instant, by special license, at St. Patrick’s
Catholic Church, Parramatta, by the Rev. Nicholas Coffey,
George Ferrers Pickering, Esq., of Sydney, to Ellen Mary,
only daughter of the late Eyre Ellis, Esq., Lieutenant in H.M.
62nd Regiment, and Captain of Mounted Police, County
Meath, Ireland.
By special license, at St. Mary’s Cathedral, by the Very Rev.
Francis Murphy, V. G., Mr. James Brady, King-street* West,
grocer, to Hanoragh, eldest daughter of Mr. J. Ryan, of
Maitland, settler.
On the 25th instant, at Bt. John’s Church, Parramatta, by
the Rev. R. Woodward, John Foulis, Esq., M.D., second son
of the late Sir James Foulis, Baronet, of Colington, near
Edinburgh, (North Britain), to Jane Selina, daughter of J.
Nathan Esq., Sydney.
At Dublin, on the 3rd February,by the Rev. CharlesNearne,
Richard King Pillar, Esq., of Culkeron, county Tyrone, to
Anne, second daughter of the late William AKFarlane, Esq.,
Glasgow.
At Elgin, North Britain, on the 10th January, William Gill,
Esq., aged 82 years.
At Canton, on the 4th November, 1843, John Wishart, Esq.
commander of the Countess of Minto, of Leith, greatly regretted
by a large circle of friends in this colony.
Suddenly, at Undercliff, Cook’s River, on the 19th June,
1844, Francis Kemble, Esq., aged 60.
On the 12th January last, at Downs, near Taunton, Somerset,
England, John O’Cock, Esq., aged 71 years, father of Mr. J.
O’Cock, of Berrima.
On the 28th December, 1843, at his house, Brixton Rise,
Surrey, Robert Williams, Esq., aged 73, deeply regretted by a
numerous circle of friends. lie was the senior founder of the
Royal Thames Yacht Club, many years the Treasurer, and
one of its valuable supporters. Brother to Mrs. S. Wiseman,
late ofCobham Hall, Portland Head, but now of London.
At his residence, Paddington House, Tulse Hill, Brixton,
Surrey, on the 10th February, James Underwood, Esq., many
years a resident of this colony, aged 67, deeply regretted by
his family and friends.
At sea, on die 30th January last, on his voyage to England,
Mr. William Hill, of this city, commander of the barque Aus-
tralasian Packet, aged 31 years.
At his residence, Rue de Rivoli, Paris, George Thomas
Savage, Esq., for many years a resident in this colony.
iue siaa&s.
JUST RECEIVED, ex Hindoo, a large assortment of
Repeal, Temperance, Confirmation, Nelson, a d Tunnel
Medals, with Cathedral and others of a very beautiful d scrip-
tion, adapted for presents.
The attention of Temperance Societies is especially invied
to five hundred beautiful Temperance Medals, which will be
sold cheap.
Specimens may be seen at Mr. Reading's Printing Office,
138, King-street East.


&slomal Htterarg journal,
Weekly Miscellany of Useful information.
T HE T, E,lM ® 0F SUBSCRIPTION to this Journal
X arc. Three Shillings per Quarter, in Town ; Country,
/.Xi HIU -' sos ASD SIxrENCEi t a y ,Me ’ in ™ er y <*«!
~Terms fop. Advertisements For one inch, and under,
iree Smlhngs; and One Shilling for every additional inch,
each insertion. Advertisements will be received until Two
o clock on W ednesday afternoon; but cannot be withdrawn
; uer t ' ian lne o’clock on Wednesday morning. Adver-
tisements must specify on the face of them the number of
ti nes they are to ke inserted, or they will.be continued till
countermanded, and charged accordingly.
A J! communications mun be addressed to “The Editor
penial Literary Journal , General Printing Office,
100. King-street East,” (postpaid.)
k'T* r^'llo^ e Subscribers who do not receive their copies
regularly, will much oblige the publishers by sending for them,
for the present, to the Office, 133, King-street.
ADVEaTZSSaSEBTT EXTSAOS3IKARY.
DWARD WALKER still continues to manufacture the
Farinaceous Food, Prepared Barley, and Patent Groats,
and returns many thanks to the public for the encouragement
he has met with in the sale of the above nutritious articles
of diet.
E. W. feels much indebted to the Faculty for the pains they
have taken in ihe examination of these articles as regards
their purity and quality, which the flattering testimonials
enclosed in the packages certify, and are as follows:
. . Sydney, Feb. 23d, 1844.
I certify that having carefully examined the Patent Groats
and prepared Barley, manufactured by Mr. Edward Walker, I
find the former of an excellent quality, well prepared, and freo
from all acidity ; ir can therefore, be strongly recommended as
a valuable article of Diet for Children and Invalids, and supe-
rior to any of the imported kinds I have yet seen.
The prepared Barley, is also of a superior quality, and may
likewise be highly recommended either for culinary purposes,
or as a nutritious and agreeable beverage for invalids.
GEORGE BENNETT, Surgeon.
I certify that I have carefully examined and tested the
Patent Groats and prepared Barley, manufactured in this
Colony by Mr. Edward Walker, and I find them superior to
any imported article of the same description I have as yet seen.
The Patent Groats prepared by Mr. E. Walker, can be safely
warranted as free from that acidity or sourness which is so
frequently the case with the imported article, and from the
superior quality of the grain, and care which has been taken
in the preparation of the sample I have seen, I feel great
satisfaction in stating it to be, as far as I can judge, an excel-
lent article of Diet for the Invalid, as w r ell as a highly nutri-
tious and digestible food for Infants.
Ihe prepared Barley cannot be too strongly recommended as
an article for culinary use, or for making a cooling and nutri-
tious drink for Invalids.
FREDERICK MACKELLAR, M. D.
Surgeon to the Sydney Dispensary.
Sydney, Feb. 15th, 1844.
I have examined specimens of Groats and Barley, prepared
by Mr. E. Walker, of Sydney, both of whiqh articles are espe-
cially adapted for the Diet of Invalids and Children.
Mr. Walker has been successful in depriving his Patent
Groats of that tendency to acescence, which that grain in its
unprepared state, is liable to in the stomach of the Invalid —
a matter of consequence in the Diet of Children for whom
wholesome food is so necessary.
Walker’s Patent Barley is valuable in the domestic manage-
ment of thejsick—forming extemporaneously Barley Water;
and in convalescence, it is particularly valuable, as it adds a
very safe article to the necessarily scanty dietary of the con-
valescent.
1 have much pleasure in giving my testimony in favour of
these articles, satisfied, that the Patentee will find it his in-
terest, as well as his duty, continue to prepare them from
sound materials.
Ist Feb. 1844. J. MacFARLANE, M. D.
03 s Manufactory Old Botany Road, late of Parramatta-street.
»BW SOUTH 'SF.&E.BS T333VSSERAM-CE SOCIETY.
rnilE ANNUAL MEETING of this Society, will be held
at the City Theatre, Market-street, THIS EVENING,
at Seven o’clock precisely. His Honor Mr. Justice Stephen
in the Chair.
S..SLTSST SUTELLIGSME.
ON SALE, at the Australasian Sale Rooms, 75, King-
street West,
Port wine, very superior, 18s. per dozen
Sherry, very fine, 15s. ditto
Ditto, good table, 12s. ditto
Porter and ale, (London,) Tinfoil, Bs. 3d. per dozen
Ditto ditto, colonial, 65., 6s. 3d. ditto
Vinegar, very best, 3s. per gallon
t ider, sparkling, Bs. per dozen
Fustian trousers, 2s. 9d. per pair
Tweed ditto, 7s. ditto
Moleskin ditto, 6s 9d ditto
Blue cloth ditto, 8s 6d. ditto
Buckskin ditto, very genteel, 10s. 6d.
Cloth waistcoats, very superior, 55., ss. 6d. each
Drill trousers, 6s. per pair
Linen drill, Is. 6d. per yard
Cassinet, 2s. per yard.
Silk handkerchiefs, a very elegant assortment, finest quality,
2s. 3d., 2s. 6d., and each
China silk ditto, very fine, Is. 3d. each
Tumblers, 3s. per dozen
“Decanters, 2s. per pair
Women’s hose. Is. 4d. and lOd. per pair
Half hose 6d. per pair
Tea-Is. per pound (worth 2s. 6d.)
s oap 6d. per bar
Jugs, fancy, 5 to a set, 15s. per set
Pencils, pencil cases, knives and forks, and every description
of goods, very cheap.
TEBBUTT & Co., Auctioneers.
Cash advanced on goods intended for sale, without any
interest being charged.
TO SSHUSG-XSTS OTHERS.
rpHE undetsigned has been instructed to close the account
1 sales of the Drugs in his hands by the 30th June, and to
dispose of the remainder at a great sacrifice to accomplish this
end. There is still on hand
Tartaric acid, crystallized and pulv.—Senna E. Ind.
Powdered turmeric —Windsor soap—Solution chlor. calces.
Soda tart—Coriander seed—Chloride of lime
Arsenic—Ginger—Essential oils of all kinds,
Honey-flower water, Congreves,
Balsam Canada, sulphuric acid
Hydrarg, c. creta, cochineal, digitalis, cantharidis
ulph. antimonii, Hooper’s, Hunt’s Inglish’s pills
Rad. mezereon, rad. scilla, Citing’s worm lozenges
Pulv. cuichon, rad gentian, cera alba, niur. morphia
Extr. colocynth pulv., acetate of morphia, elaterium
Gum mastic, croci stigmat., Butler’s extract of sarsae,
Carmine, cetacium, Daffy’s elixir, marking ink, cream of tartar
Alum—Rotten stone —Pearl ash
GEO. A. LLOYD,
June 26. No. 10, Bridge-street.
ON SALE at the Stores of the undersigned—
Sherry wine, in 3 dozen cases, very superior
Ditto Ditto, in 3 dozen cases, 12s. 6d. per dozen
Port wine, in 3 dozen cases
Champagne
Dunbar’s ale, in 3 dozen casks, at Bs. per dozen
Liverpool soap, 2d per lb.
Negrohead tobacco, (Jones’s brand) very fine
Arrowroot, in any quantities
Ditto very superior, in 12 lb tins
Cigars
ALSO,
A number of deal rafters, suitable for building stables or out-
houses, which will be sold reasonable.
GEORGE A. LLOYD,
June 26. 10, Bridge-street.
