

COLONIAL
LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
“ NON TUA TE MOVEANT, SED PUBLICA VOTA.”
Vol. I. No. 12.]
SYDNEY, THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1844.
[Price 4tl.
THE EDUCATIONAL PRINCIPLE.
The public mind has been much occupied of late with
the consideration of the important topic of Education.
All agree upon its importance, and the advantages it
bestows; but as to the method of imparting such ad-
vantages, and the ruling principles that should be
maintained in so doing, various and opposite senti-
ments have been expressed.
Whatever be our station, the best way of providing
for our families is by education. A good education is
far better than what is called a good fortune. We are
called to fill certain stations in life, for none of which
we are fitted without education ; that is, without going
through a course of instruction by which we become
gradually fitted for that station. Every employment
has its art —something which must be learnt; and how
miserable the condition of those especially who are
dependent on their exertions for their support, who
have been left uneducated, their minds undisciplined,
taught nothing by which they might gain an honest
livelihood. The Jews of old felt this very strongly,
and had a proverb, which they applied to rich as well
as poor, namely, that he that brought not up his son
to some employment brought him up to be a thief.
As regards mental education, how important to a
child’s happiness and usefulness in life are habits of
attention, order, diligence, obedience ! But such habits
must be formed by education. For what is a habit?
1 hat which we are disposed to do, and do easily, from
having done it frequently. Hence the necessity of line
upon line on our part, of act upon act on the part of
the child ; 1 hence, in other words, the necessity of
education.
As to the particular knowledge with which to store
a child’s mind, the great principle by which to be
guided is this—impart that knowledge which will best
prepare the child for the probable circumstances in
which he may be placed in after life. In this sense,
the education to be given to the poor must be of a
different character from that to be given to the rich.
Endeavour to form in them both, habits of attention,
order, diligence, obedience. The faculties of both
should be strengthened by exercise—their memories,
their judgments, &c.; but the objects about which
they are to employ those faculties must vary with
that great difference of outward circumstances in w hich
they have been placed. To educate children above
their station is only laying the foundation for their
future misery.
Every thinking person will admit that the education
ot all classes should be both secular and religious. It
is, we trust, the feeling of the majority, that religion
should be, indeed, the ruling principle and basis of
education, and not be considered as an inferior part
of the system. Religion is paramount, inasmuch as
eternity is superior to time. “We make religion,”
says a late English writer, “ the basis of education,
and maintain that the instruction which prepares man
for eternity is also the instruction which is most pro-
fitable for time. We desire to make men useful to
themselves and their families; useful to the commu-
nity in their several stations. Let it be supposed for
a moment that we have this object, and no other. They
are not made so because their heads are stored with
knowledge, unless their minds are also brought under
regulation. And we have no secret for regulating the
mind, except that disclosed in Scripture : no other way
of providing against those vices which are alike per-
nicious to the state and destructive to the individual,
except through the operation of those great truths
which govern and guide the heart. The passions are
not controlled, the appetites are not brought into sub-
jection, because the mind is made acquainted with
literature, or with the arts, or with history, or with
arithmetic. Have these that power over the man as
to withdraw him from the haunts of profligate com-
panionship ? If such were the effect of these pursuits
and this sort of knowledge, we should witness it in
that higher class of society which is universally con-
versant with them. Unhappily, we know that the
fact is otherwise; we know by sad experience, that
the greatest intellectual strength may exist with the
most grievous moral weakness ; we know that it is no
uncommon case to find transcendent talents accom-
panied by pre-eminent depravity, and superior mental
powers only rendering more conspicuous the corrup-
tion of the heart. It is indeed a humiliating fact,
though a fact too important to be concealed, that when
we have succeeded in obtaining the most cultivated or
intellectual man, we have no security that we have
obtained the man who is a useful member of the society
to which he belongs. He may be as little what, as
lovers of mankind, or as lovers of our country, we
desire him to be, as the very man who has been least
raised above the ground he treads upon through the
process of education ; he may be as much a slave to
debasing vice ; he may be as neglectful of those whom
he ought to cherish; he may be reckless of any mo-
ment beyond the present: he may be improvident,
dishonest, cruel. And with this undeniable fact before
us, how can we close our eyes against the truth, that
it is vain to give men knowledge, unless you also give
them the qualities which make knowledge valuable?”
To the enquiry, then, What is a good education? the


reply is, the Bible must form the basis of it; as reli-
gion, the religion of the Bible, can alone fully unfold
to man the purposes of his existence, and supply him
with ability and motives to pursue them.
Again, it is evident that education, if based upon
religion, may be expected to produce very different
results from education left to run riot for itself, or
left only under the flimsy guidance of intellectual
cultivation. The great cause of the total inefficiency
of the latter for preservation, viz. the extremely small
portion of mankind, over whom it can ever exercise
any sensible influence, compared with the multitude
with wffiom pleasure and excitement are the ruling
principles, is no ways applicable to religious feeling.
Every man has not an understanding capable of cul-
tivation ; but every man has a soul to be saved.
Universal as is the stimulus of the senses and pas-
sions, as universal, if early awakened, are the re-
proaches of conscience and the terrors of judgment to
come. The Gospel was, in an especial manner,
preached to the poor ; not only are its leading princi-
ples obvious to every understanding, but its principal
incidents find their way to every heart. Doubtless
there are great numbers in every age, and especially
in every opulent age, to whom all its exhortations
will be addressed in vain, and in whom the seductions
of present interest or pleasure will completely extin-
guish all the effect of the most pointed denunciations
of future dangers either in this world or the next. —
But still, the number of those whom religion can
prevent from sinning, or reclaim from vice, is incom-
parably greater than those whom science or philosophy
can effect. The proof of this is decisive. Every age
of the world has shown numerous examples of nations
convulsed, sometimes to the last degree, by religious
fervour and sectarian enthusiasm : but nobody ever
heard of the masses being moved by science and phi-
losophy. Chemistry and philosophy are very good
things, but they will never set the world on fire. It
is self-evident, therefore, that as the dangers of unre-
gulated education consists in this, that w r orks which
are to do the people good, appear, like the paths of
virtue, dull and uninviting in the outset, and are felt
to be beneficial only in the end ; while deleterious and
exciting productions, like the temptations of vice, are
exciting and agreeable in the outset, and to every
capacity, and are perceived only to lead to sackcloth
and ashes, when it is too late for any effectual amend-
ment of life or manners —we must look for an antidote
to this general and enormous evil, in some counter-
acting principle of equally universal application and
equally powerful efficacy. The experience of ages,
not less than the feeling of our own hearts, tell us,
that the only antidote to this evil is to be found in the
intimate blending of education with religious instruc-
tion. It is by this union alone, that the antagonist
powers of goed and evil can be equally developed by
the process of education ; that the attractions of sin
can be counteracted by opposite principles of equal
force and general efficacy ; that we can give its true
development to the principles of Christianity, and
screen public instruction from the obvious reproach of
adding force to the dissolving powders in the many,
and imparting strength to the counteracting forces
only in the few.
In the foregoing desultory remarks we have at-
tempted to shew that a religious education should
have the pre-eminence over a secular education. If
such be allowed, we consider that this alone is suf-
ficient to prevent the adoption of either a general
system of education, or the separate system, viz. the
secular education of the children being left to the
teachers, and the religious education to the pastors and
parents.
To attempt to educe from the opposite and hetero-
geneous tenets, held by various denominations, certain
fundamental principles on which all could meet as on
common ground, would be, in our opinion, to lower
even the fundamental principles of religious faith to a
few vague sentiments, and would be a fearful—because
forbidden—diminishing of the inspired Word of God.
Moderation in religious sentiments is not, nor should
it be, the characteristic of any party : and we know,
by experience, that a general system would, at length,
inevitably tend to the encouragement of the peculiar
creed of the stronger party. Is there any one deno-
mination that would, on principle, willingly suffer
their members to be instructed in the peculiar tenets
of another ? The result of such adherence to principle
must therefore, (however much it may be lamented
by some,) be a protest against the proposed system of
general education.
Without entering deeply into the controversy, we
cannot but consider it self-evident, that the denomina-
tional system has ever operated more beneficially than
would a general system. In the former case, parents
have no excuse for detaining their children from school;
there being schools for each denomination. Not so with
the latter. Parents, attached from principle to one or
other peculiar denomination, may have some grounds
to fear the total neglect of religious duties on the one
hand, or the danger of proselytism, it may be to real error,
on the other, for what is to prevent the rapid and destruc-
tive increase of sects generated by the rampant pride and
passions of fallen man ? In the more thinly populated
districts of the colony, the denominational system
might be mitigated sufficiently to meet the peculiar
circumstances of the place. Such isolated cases are
not to be considered, in a prejudicial sense, to the
working of the denominational system. Human nature
is such, that the operation of the general system would,
(if it -worked at all,) cause constant party bickerings,
and at times a total departure from the spirit of Chris-
tian love ; whereas if each Christian assembly be left,
as is just and proper, to the governance and education
of its own members, peace and good will "would con-
tinue to unite the various branches of the universal
church.
We shall not dilate on the many objections which
have been stated against so (in our opinion) baneful
a combination as is proposed, but proceed to observe
that many persons, not friendly to the general
system of education as a principle, have recommended
it on the ground of expediency. It is to be feared
that very many excuse themselves in a slight derelic-
tion from principle, because,as they say,circumstances,
over which they have no control, have forced them to
it. They have had but a choice of evils ; and they have
endeavoured, they will tell you, to choose the least.
Absolute perfection, we well know, is unattainable
in this life, it is often wise to put up with acknowledged
deficiencies and inconveniences, rather than give chase
to some visionary good : yet these deficiencies and
inconveniences must not be of a moral kind. We may
yield our comfort, but we must not yield our consci-
ence ; we may excuse infirmity in the instruments we


employ, but we must not allow evil in the object at
which we aim. This is a rule to be carefully observed
when we combine for any purpose with others. In all
these things we must be guided by no mean standard.
The man who acts on the motive of expediency will
sooner or later find the advantages he expects glide
from his grasp, and the evil he would avoid overwhelm
him. The evil of departing from principle ought
strongly to be inculcated on all classes of men. And let
those who are placed in authority learn this important
lesson. If they quit, for any consideration, however
pressing, the plain path of rectitude ; if they concede
in opposition to conscience ; they will entail a thousand
evils on themselves and the land they govern. And
in all lower stations, in private as well as in public
life, should be taught the same truth. Adherence to
principle is a part of the honesty of behaviour which
one man in society is bound to shew towards another ;
it is a part of that religious consistency which he is
bound personally to maintain. Let children from
their earliest years he taught to act on principle.
Parents should train them by precept and example
from the first in this right way, if they would
have them when they are old not depart from it.
Habits, to be formed effectually, should be formed
while the mind is young.
It is not our intention to touch upon all the points
of the present controversy. Our object in this article
has been, in a very imperfect manner, to shew the
primary place which religion should receive in a system
of education—to shew the impossibility of the various
religious denominations concurring in any one system
of religious education—and to shew that such could
never be the case without the utter dereliction from
principle of some, if not of all.
Biography.
BERNADOTTE, THE LATE KING OF SWEDEN.
[From the “ Illustrated London News.”]
Another of the royalties of Europe has yielded up the sceptre
and the crown, and left the throne to a successor. Bernadotte,
King of Sweden, is no more. His country is not a very in-
fluential one among the powers of Europe, but the character
and career of its late monarch are invested with more than
ordinary interest. He is the last, and was long the only living
survivor of the monarchs that were created out of the com-
panions of the early campaigns of Napoleon ; most of these
kings and kingdoms perished before the fall of their founder;
Spain, Naples, Rome, all disappeared like the forms of a
dream. But Bernadotte, who placed himself on the throne of
Sweden, not only without Napoleon’s assistance, but against
ns opposition, maintained himself on it for a long series of
years and has died peaceably at a good old age, respected by
his adopted people, and leaving an apparently quiet succession
to his son. Bernadotte was a true soldier of the French
Republic, and retained his republicanism long after many
others thought it prudent to drop theirs as they followed their
leader on lus path to the attainment of imperial power. But
placed on a throne, it cannot be said that Bernadotte did not
modify those principles very considerably. He is the last of
a race whose history, when read by future ages, will be
deemed as startling and fabulous as that of the Peers of
Charlemagne; beginning life under the burden of the knap-
sack, they finished it wearing, or having worn, the “ round
and top of sovereignty.” Ages may pass before such an
uprooting of the social fabric of Europe again occurs, as gave
heir opportunities to men like Bernadotte, of Sweden.
John Baptiste Julias Bernadotte, destined to be one of the
greatest and by far the most fortunate of Napoleon’s lieuten-
ants, was born at Pau, the capital of Bearne, January 26,1764-
His parents were humble, but not of the humblest condition,
as appears from the superior education they were enabled to
give him. Some accounts say that he was designed for the
bar; but, in his sixteenth year, he suddenly relinquished his
studies, and enlisted as a private soldier into the royal marines.
At the commencement of the French Revolution he had only
risen to the rank of sergeant, but in the years that followed»
his advancement was very rapid. At Fleurus he commanded
a division of the Republican army; and his services on the
Rhine, with Jourdan, 1796, established his military reputa-
tion. Thence he was sent, with reinforcements from the army
of the Sambre and Meuse, to join Bonaparte in Italy. Tie
bore a part in the most brilliant actions of that campaign ; and
was chosen by Bonaparte to convey to Paris the standards
captured at Rivoli. After the peace of Campo Formio, he
went to Vienna for a short time as Minister of the French
Republic; and he afterwards attempted, though in vain, to re-
trieve the maladministration of the military department under
the Directory. The 18th Brumaire, and the decisive ascen-
dency of Bonaparte over the destinies of France, gave a fresh
impulse to his career. He-contributed to the capture of Ulm,
and he earned his share of the laurels of Austerlitz. In the
preceding year he had received the staff of a Marshal of
France, and in 1806 the title of Prince of Ponte Corvo was
added to his other honours. In the German campaigns, as
well as in the command which helield for a short time against
the Chouans in the west of France, he was distinguished from
all his military comrades by his consideration and generosity
towards the conquered enemy. From 1806 to 1809 he com-
manded the first corps d'armee in the north of Germany, and it
is recorded that his personal kindness to a body of 1/500
Swedes, who had fallen as prisoners into his hands, first
awakened amongst the younger officers of that nation those
feelings of gratitude which led to his nomination as a candi
date for the reversion of the crown of Sweden.
Of all the Imperial Generals (for the sterner Republican
spirits of the army had long been removed from the scene)
Bernadotte was the least inclined to yield to Napoleon that
servile deference which he so strictly exacted. The blemishes
of the Imperial regime , the abuse of military power, and the
jealousies which had sprung up between the grandees of that
transitory court, had alarmed his caution, and, perhaps,
offended his sense of justice. Suddenly, and by a personal
impulse rather than by any subtle combination of policy or
intrigue, his name was mentioned at the Diet of Orebro,
where the deputies of Sweden were assembled to choose a
successor to Charles XIII. The consent of the Prince de
Ponte Corvo had already been privately implied ; that of the
Emperor Napoleon was, not without misgivings, extorted
from him. Bernadotte said, with characteristic astuteness,
“ Will your Majesty make me greater than yourself by com-
pelling me to have refused a crown ?” Napoleon replied'
“You may go: our destinies must be accomplished.”
From that hour Bernadotte, or, as he was thenceforward
styled, Charles John, Crown Prince of Sweden, turned with
no divided affection to his adopted country. The first acts of
his government were to refuse to recruit the French fleet at
Brest with Swedish sailors, and to struggle against the oppres-
sive exigencies of the Continental system. He liberated
Sweden from that subserviency to the political interests of
France which had proved so fatal to her own greatness and to
the welfare of her sovereigns. In 1812 a secret alliance was
formed between Sweden and Russia; and in the following
year the Crown Prince assumed the command of the com-
bined forces of Northern Germany against the French empire.


The reward of the services which he had rendered to the
cause of European freedom, and to the armies of Sweden, was
his undisputed succession to that crown, which he owed
neither to the sword nor to the arbitrary policy of his former
master, but to the deliberate choice of the Swedish people.
It was on his birthday in the year 1840, after a reign of
nearly thirty years, that Charles John XIV, took occasion, in
a speech from the throne, to survey with parental satisfaction
the condition of his dominions. The population of the king-
dom was so much increased, that the inhabitants of Sweden
alone are now equal in number to those of Sweden and
Finland before the later province was torn from the former.
The commerce and the manufactures of. the country have
been doubled—agriculture improved—instruction diffused —
the finances raised from a state of great embarrassment to
complete prosperity—the national debt almost paid off—a
civil and a penal code proposed for promulgation—the great
canals that unite the ocean with the Baltic have been com-
pleted—and lastly, the secular hostility of the Swedish and
Norwegian nations has given way to mutual confidence,
cefhented by kindred institutions, and the enlightened govern-
ment of the same sceptre.
Such are the claims of the late Sovereign to the respectful
and grateful recollections of his people.
He died on the 16th March, in the present year, at 4 o’clock
in the morning. His son and heir succeeds him under the
title of Oscar the Second.
A DROP OF WATER.
[An Extract.]
How common, and yet how beautiful and how pure,
is a drop of w ater ! See it, as it issues from the rock,
to supply the spring and the stream below. See how
its meanderings through the plains, and its torrents
over the cliffs, add to the richness and the beauty of
the landscape. Look into a factory standing by a
waterfall, in which every drop is faithful to perform
its pait, and hear the groaning and rustling of tha
wheels, the clattering of shuttles, and the buzz of
spindles, w hich, under the direction of their fair at-
tendants, are supplying myriads of fair purchasers
with fabrics from the cotton-plant, the sheep, and the
silk-worm.
Is any one so stupid as not to admire the splendour
of the rainbow, or so ignorant as not to know that it
is produced by drops of water, as they break away
from the clouds which had confined them, and are
making a quick visit to our earth, to renew its ver-
dure and increase its animation ? How useful is the
gentle dew, in its nightly visits to allay the scorching
heat of a summer’s sun ! And the autumn’s frost,
how beautifully it bedecks the trees, the shrubs, and
the grass; though it strips them of their summer’s
verdure, and warns them that they shall soon receive
the buffetings of the winter’s tempest ! This is but
water, which has given up its transparency for its
beautiful whiteness and its elegant crystals. The
snow 7 , too —what is that but these same pure drops
thrown into crystals by winter’s icy hand ? —and does
not the first summer’s sun return them to the same
limpid drops ?
The majestic river, and the boundless ocean, what
are they ? Are they not made of drops of w r ater ?
How the river steadily pursues its course from the
mountain's top, down the declivity, over the cliff, and
through the plain, taking with it every thing in its
course! How many mighty ships does the ocean
float upon its bosom ! How many fishes sport in its !
waters ! How does it form a lodging-place for the
Amazon, the Mississippi, the Danube, the Rhine, tlie
Ganges, the Lena, and the Hoang Ho !
How piercing are these pure limpid drops ! How
do they find their way into the bowels of the earth,
and even the solid rock ! How many thousand
streams, hidden from our view by mountain masses,
are steadily pursuing their courses, deep from the
surface which forms our standing place forafew short
days ! In the air, too, how it diffuses itself ! Where
can a particle of air be found which does not contain
an atom of water !
How much would a famishing man give for a few
of these pure, limpid drops of water ? And where do
we use it in our daily sustenance ?—or rather, where
do we not use it ? Which portion of the food that
we have taken during our lives did not contain it ?
What part of our body, which limb, which organ, is
not moistened with this same faithful servant ? How
is our blood, that free liquid, to circulate through our
veins without it?
How gladly does the faithful horse, or the patient
ox, in his toilsome journey, arrive at the water’s
brink ! And the faithful dog, patiently following his
master’s track—how eagerly does he lap the water
from the clear fountain he meets in his way !
The feathered tribe, also—how far and how quick
their flight, that they may exchange the northern ice
for the same common comfort rendered liquid and
limpid by a southern sun !
Whose heart ought not to overflow with gratitude
to the abundant Giver of this pure liquid, which His
own hand has deposited in the deep, and diffused
through the floating air and the solid earth? Is it
the farmer, whose fields, by the gentle dew and the
abundant rain, bring forth fatness ? Is it the me-
chanic, whose saw, lathe, spindle, and shuttle, are
moved by this faithful servant? Is it the merchant,
on his return from the noise and the perplexities of
business to the table of his family, richly supplied
with the varieties and the luxuries of the four quar-
ters of the globe, produced by the abundant rain, and
transported across the mighty but yielding ocean ?
Is it the physician, on his administering to his patient
some gentle beverage, or a more active healer of the
disease which threatens ? Is it the clergyman, whose
profession it is to make others feel —and that, by feel-
ing himself that the slightest favour and the richest
blessing are from the same source, and from the same
abundant and constant Giver T
PAST AND PRESENT.
Our early days ! how their recollection steals at times over
our spirits, and with what pleasure we turn away from “ the
busy crowd, the hum, the shock of men,” and stemming the
stream down which our destiny is hurrying us, retrace it to its
fount, and amid the hills of infancy, the sunny fields, and
flowery dells, once again regale our hearts. And such re-
currences are not without a good effect upon our present
position. Who can gaze on himself as he was in the glad
and thoughtless lapse of childhood, and compare the present
with the past, without feeling chagrin and humiliation. Go
back to the pretty little prattler looking up in the face of its
kind mother, without a furrow on its cheek, or a wrinkle on
its brow, or a shade upon its soul—listen to its lispings as it
teazes with its importunities its loving parent, or tells with
childish confidence its wishes and its wants —unfolding without
the calculating caution of worldly wisdom, the secrets and


occurrences of its little life. As yet the tender feelings of the
,heart have not been warped by disappointment, nor has the
venom oF the world worked its way with the lifetide into that
heart where innocence and careless glee had made their
dwelling. In the soul, and on the brow, there was confiding
candour, and in ignorance of the cold unfeelingness of earth,
its taunting raillery, and heartless greetings, as well as the
sufferings and untold distress of multitudes who go mourning
all their days—in happy ignorance of these, the tender feelings
of childhood would flow at the tale of sorrow—for familiarity
with woe had not then dried up the dew of Heaven in the soul.
T would I could recall again
That bright and blissful joy,
And summon to my weary heart
The feelings of a boy.”
But we pass on in the review, and come to the time when
we first discovered falsehood in others, or deceit in ourselves,
and watch the workings of the mind, as we gradually became
familiar with knowledge which never increased our peace, and
grew wise in lore which only discovered to us the moral virus
in every vein of the soul; and recollect the feelings
which then first found their home in the breast, the wild pant-
ings, and burning longings, the anxious enquiries, and secret
research, for more and more of the knowledge of things as
they are—a knowledge never wide enough, and conceptions
always enlarging, and yet “ the eye was not filled with seeing,
nor the ear with hearing,” nor did our greedy appetite ever say
“it is enough.” But whether we grew better for our know-
ledge, or worse, time was progressing, bearing us on its pinions,
and we were growing older, and the time came when by some
new arrangement, such as leaving the paternal home, we were
thrown into more immediate contact with society, and dis-
covered in the “ways of the world” a new and unlimited
sphere. Oh ! I can remember —and some who read these
lines perhaps have not forgot that period, when they left “ the
old house at home.” This was the time when the bud unspread
itself to morning, in an atmosphere, to some, perchance, as
baneful and as deadly, as the atmosphere to which others
ope’d their blossoms was sweet and balmy ; for to some, rude
blows the blast—to others, soft breathes the gale—to some
the boisterous storm sweeps roughly, which early scatters the
snow of winter on their locks, and then brings down their
“ grey hairs in sorrow to the grave”—while others, on beds of
softness, breathe the perfumed air of luxury, which, if more
agreeable to our nature, is equally or more deleterious in its
quality. But, was the atmosphere to which we first spread
our bud, balmy or baneful, did we begin our being amid the
pitiless peltings of affliction, poverty, and unkindness, or were
we fanned by the cool zephyr and favouring breath of Heaven,
and surrounded by the kind, the feeling, and the true —yet
when we thus issued into existence, and entered on the wide,
wide world alone, a pleasing surprise filled our bosoms ; we
remember how our hearts swelled, and thrilled, with a new
unutterable feeling of pleasant anticipation ; our childish diffi-
dence was being supplanted by youthful confidence or pert
self-sufficiency, and we fancied ourselves competent to guide
our own vessels, and be our own masters, and alas, of those
who launched their vessels with ours, some have steered their
frail barks upon rocks of ruin—others have been opposed by
contrary winds and adverse waves, but, when tempest-tost, they
still stood firm to the helm, and have outlived the storm “ more
than conquerors;” while with others less hardy and resolute
‘‘The magnet of their course is gone,
Or only points in vain
The shore to which their shiver’d sail
bhall never stretch again.”
And u-e— yes 1 we ourselves, what have we done ? We have
not had an untroubled sea, or an unclouded sun ; the chill
winds of woe are not so rare, but we have felt their frost; yet
let our weather have been as tranquil as it may, nevertheless
we have felt the heaving of many a billow, and the swelling ot
many a tide, and the pelting of many a storm ; and if we call
our own hearts to our council room, and gaze on the being we
call ourselves, we cannot but see in our weather-beaten coun-
tenances the lines of care, and the bronze of strife. We unbind
the-mantle which covers our breast, and we see the worm
greedily working its way to the heart; we uncover the brow,
and there are the furrows of untold cares, too deeply drawn
to be overlooked. We wish to hear the voice too, to know if
that retains the softness of early years, so we make an enquiry
“ how old art thou ?” and hearken to its falter and its sadness,
as it answers, “ few and short have been the days of the years
of my pilgrimage 1” Yes ! a few years of the wear and tear of
this world, and “ how* has the fine gold become dim !” If our
histories were told, would they not disclose a course of way
ward inconsistency and caprice, at which our childhood, or
our youth time would have turned away in horror ? Gone is
the innocence, and gaiety, of our springtime, the holy lessons
of a kind mother are forgotten, and the tender teachings of
early years are out of mind, and the hallowed precepts in-
culcated on our mother’s knee are almost effaced; and while
we compare the present with the past, and see how changed,
and sadly changed, we are, we cannot but regret the chilling
and corroding effects of acquaintance with men and manners.
But although the comparison discovers a transition as melan-
choly as it is real and apparent, there are few who would
exchange their present position even for the happy hours of
childhood. Looking through the vista of intervening years,
we do not at first discover that subsequent sorrow and suffering
were necessary to enable us properly to appreciate pleasure.
Should we ever have been able to value rightly honour and
integrity, if we had not suffered by villainy and outrage ?
Could we have told the value of friendship, true and steadfast,
if we had not seen professed friends prove base and heartless ?
Or could we have properly valued the resplendent gold which
decks the mantle of virtue, if we had not seen the tinselled
trash which glitters in the garb of profligacy ? Tis true, we
have lost the sensitiveness of childhood, we can touch the cold
hand of sorrow without congealing our heart’s tide, but it is
because we have learnt to hold our passions and feelings by
the reins ot reason, and instead of displaying our pity and
condolence by streaming eyes, and sobbing sympathy, we prove
it in a more substantial, if not feeling manner. God forbid
that finding others unkind and false, should make us be our-
selves the hateful things they are. If our dealings with the
world have brought to light deceit in ourselves, and falsehood
in others, they have also shown the dissatisfaction and un-
happiness consequent on vice, and the countless profit of
rectitude and truth. We have, ’tis true, often missed our
way, and followed a wrong course, but this has discovered to
us that the magnet of our own wisdom may not be trusted, for
it is not “ true to the pole.” Sad and sorrowful as our tale
may be, it would have been far sadder if we had been per-
mitted to follow on our own way to the end. If our dealings
with the world have not given us firmness of purpose, and
lectitude of principle, with rational grief, and manly sympathy,
which our childhood never knew, we may indeed regret the
change, for in intellect at least, we are no older than when we
were babes. The longer we live the more we should learn,
and the more we know the greater we become, and by obser-
vation on ourselves and others, and a firm adherence to recti-
tude and truth, we may yet attain a nobility of nature, and
our last days be our best. A hoary head will be “ a crown o*
glory,” because found in the “ way of righteousness,” and
when we are laid under the sod, our names shall be to gene-
rations yet unborn the watchwords of triumph.
FREDERICK.


History.
ANCIENT HISTORY-. SECTION X.
THE REPUBLIC OF ATHENS.
1. On the abolition of the regal office at Athens, the
change of the constitution was more nominal than
real. The archonship was, during 331 years, a per-
petual and hereditary magistracy, in the family of
Codrus, and in this form became equally grievous as
that which had preceded it. In 754 a.c. this office
became decennial. Even this limited term was found
opposed to the growing spirit of democracy, and in
648 the archons were annually elected, and w r ere
nine in number, with equal authority. Under all
these changes, the state was convulsed, and the con-
dition of the people miserable.
2. Draco, elevated to the archonship 624 a.c. pro-
jected a reform in the constitution of his country,
and thought to repress disorders by the extreme
severity of penal laws. But his talents were unequal
to the task he had undertaken.
3. Solon, an illustrious Athenian, of the race of
Codrus, attained the dignity of archon 594 a.c., and
was intrusted with the care of framing for his country
a new form of government, and a neiv system of laws.
He possessed extensive knowledge, but wanted that
intrepidity of mind which is necessary to the charac-
ter of a great statesman. His disposition was mild
and temporising ; and, without attempting to reform
the manners of his countrymen, he accommodated his
system to their prevailing habits and passions.
4. The people claimed the sovereign power, and
they received it: the rich demanded offices and dig-
nities : the system of Solon accommodated them to
the utmost of their ivishes. He divided the citizens
into four classes, according to the measure of their
wealth. To the first three, the richer citizens, be-
longed all the offices and dignities of the common-
wealth. The fourth, the poorer class, more nume-
rous than all the other three, had an equal right of
suffrage with them in the public assembly, where all
laws were framed, and measures of state decreed.
Consequently the weight of the latter decided every
question, and gave them the chief power in the state.
5. To regulate in some degree the proceedings of
those assemblies, and balance the weight of the
popular interest, Solon instituted a senate of 400
members (afterwards enlarged to 500 and 600), with
whom it was necessary that every measure should
originate before it became the subject of discussion in
the assembly of the people.
6. To the court of Areopagus he committed the
guardianship of the laws, and the power of enforcing
them, with the supreme administration of justice.
To this tribunal belonged likewise the custody of the
treasures of the state, the care of religion, and a
tutorial power over all the youth of the republic.
The number of its judges was various at different
periods, and the most immaculate purity of character
was essential to that high office. They were choser
from among the most respectable t)f the citizens, anc
generally such as had discharged the duties o:
archon.
7. The authority of the senate and Areopagus
imposed some check on the popular assemblies ; but
as these possessed the ultimate right of decision, it was
always in the power of ambitious demagogues to sway
them to the worst of purposes, and to render useless
the regulations of the wisest legislator that ever lived.
Continual factions divided the people, and corruption
pervaded every department of the state. The public
measures, the result of the interested schemes of indivi-
duals, were often equally absurd as they were pro-
fligate. Athens often saw her best patriots, the
wisest and most virtuous of her citizens, shamefully
sacrificed to the most depraved and most abandoned.
8. The particular laws of the Athenian state were
more deserving of encomium than its form of govern-
ment. The laws relating to debtors were mild and
equitable ; imprisonment for debt was prohibited,
but every debtor was deprived of his vote in the
public assembly until the debt was paid. This dis-
franchisement extended also to the heir. The laws
regulating the treatment of slaves w r ere equally mild
and humane. The slave might purchase his free-
dom, he might marry a free woman, and their chil-
dren had all the rights of citizens, —But the vassalage
of women, or their absolute subjection to the control
of their nearest relations, approached too near to a state
of servitude. The proposer of a law, found on ex-
perience impolitic, was liable to punishment ; an
enactment apparently rigorous, but probably neces-
sary in a popular government.
9. One most iniquitous and absurd peculiarity of
the Athenian, and some other governments of Greece,
was the practice of the Ostracism , a ballot of all the
citizens, in which each wrote down the name of the
person in his opinion most obnoxious to censure; and
he who was thus marked out by the greatest number
of voices, though unimpeached of any crime, was
banished for ten years from his country. This bar-
barous and disgraceful institution, ever capable of the
grossest abuse, and generally subservient to the worst
of purposes, has stained the character of Athens with
many flagrant instances of public ingratitude.
10. The manners of the Athenians formed the most
striking contrast to those of the Lacedaemonians. The
arts were, at Athens, in the highest esteem •, the
Lacedaemonians despised the arts, and all who culti-
vated them. At Athens, peace was the natural state
of the republic, and the refined enjoyment of life the
aim of all its subjects ; Sparta was entirely a military
establishment : her subjects, when unengaged in war
were totally unoccupied. Luxury was the character
of the Athenian, as frugality of the Spartan. They
were equally jealous of their liberty, because liberty
was equally necessary to each, for the enjoyment o
his favourite scheme of life ; and in the best times
of both republics they‘were equally brave in war.
The courage of the Spartan sprung from a fostered
hardihood and constitutional ferocity, that of the
Athenian from the principle of honour.
11. The Spartan government had acquired solidity,
while all the rest of Greece rvas yet unsettled aud
torn by domestic dissensions. —While the power of
Sparta was thus high among the states of the Pelo-
ponnesus, Athens, a prey to faction and civil disordei,
surrendered her liberties to Pisistratus (550 a.c.), a
relation of Solon, a man of great talents, and highly
popular. Pisistratus, after various turns of fortune,
established himself firmly in the sovereignty, exer-
cised a splendid and munificent dominion, com-
pletely gained the affections of the people, and trans-
mitted a peaceable crown to his sons Hippias an'.
Hipparchus.


12. Hennodias and Aristogiton undertook to re-
store the democracy ; and succeeded in the attempt.
Hipparchus was put to death; and Hippias, dethroned,
solicited a foreign aid to replace him in the sove-
reignty. Darius, the son of Hystaspes, meditated at
at this time the conquest of Greece. Hippias took
advantage of the views of an enemy against his native
country, and Greece was now involved in a war with
Persia.
A CHRISTMAS CAROL.
BY CHARLES DICKENS.
STAVE V.-THE END OF IT.
Yes! and the bedpost was his own. TII6 bed was his own,
the room was his own. Best and happiest of all, the Time
before him was his own, to make amends in !
“ I will live in the Past, the Present, and the Future !”
Scrooge repeated, as he scrambled out of bed. “ The Spirits
of all Three shall strive within me. Oh Jacob Marley! Hea-
ven, and the Christmas Time be praised for this! I say it on
my knees, old Jacob ; on my knees !”
He was so fluttered and so glowing with his good intentions
that his broken voice would scarcely answer to his call. He
bad been sobbing violently in his conflict with the Spirit, and
his face was wet with tears.
“They are not torn down,” cried Scrooge, folding one of
his bed-curtains in his arms, “ they are not torn down rings
and all. They are here: I am here: the shadows of the things
that would have been, may be dispelled. They will be. I
know they will!”
His hands were busy with his garments all this time: turn-
ing them inside out, putting them on upside down, tearing
them, mislaying them, making them parties to every kind of
extravagance.
“ I don’t know what to do 1” cried Scrooge, laughing and
crying in the same breath ; and making a perfect Laocoon of
himself with his stockings. “ I am as light as a feather, I am
as happy as an angel, I am as merry as a school-boy. I am
as giddy as a drunken man. A merry Christmas to every-
body ! A Happy New Year to all the world. Hallo here !
Whoop ! Hallo !”
He had frisked into the sitting-room, and was now standing
there : perfectly winded.
“ There’s the saucepan that the gruel was in !” cried Scrooge,
starting off* again, and frisking round the fire-place. “ There’s
the door, by which the Ghost of Jacob Marley entered!—
There’s the corner where the Ghost of Christmas Present,
sat! There’s the window where I saw the wandering Spirits !
It’s all right, it’s all true, it all happened. Ha ha ha!”
Really, for a man who had been out of practice for so many
years, it was a splendid laugh, a most illustrious laugh. The
father of a long, long, line of brilliant laughs !
“ I don’t know what day of the month it is!” said Scrooge.
“ I don’t know how long I’ve been among the Spirits. I
don’t know anything. I’m quite a baby. Never mind. I
don’t care. I’d rather be a baby. Hallo ! Whoop! Hallo
here!”
He was checked in his transports by the churches ringing
out the lustiest peals he had ever heard; Clash, clang, Imm-
™er ’ c j’ n ?> dong, bell. Bell, dong, ding, hammer, clang, clash !
Gh, glorious, glorious !
Running to the window, he opened it, and put out his head.
No fog, no mist; clear, bright, jovial, stirring, cold ; cold,
piping for the blood to dance to ; Golden sunlight; Heavenly
sky ; sweet fresh air ; merry bells. Ob, glorious. Glorious !
“ W hat’s to-day ?” cried Scrooge, calling downward to a
boy in Sunday clothes, who perhaps had loitered in to look
about him.
Eh ? returned the boy, with all bis might of wonder.
“ What’s to-day, my fine fellow ?” said Scrooge.
“ To-day !” replied the boy. “ Why Christmas Day.”
“ It’s Christmas Day !” said Scrooge to himself. “ I haven’t
missed it. Ihe Spirits have done it all in one night.’ They
can do anything they like. Of course they can. Of course
they can. Hallo, my fine fellow!”
“ Hallo !” returned the boy.
“ Do you know the Poulterer’s in the next street but one, at
the corner ? Scrooge inquired.
“ 1 should hope I did,” replied the lad.
“ An intelligent boy!” said Scrooge. “A remarkable
boy! Do you know whether they’ve sold the prize Turkey
that was hanging up there ? Not the little prize Turkey: the
big one ?”
“ What, the one as big as me ?” returned the boy.
“ What a delightful boy!” said Scrooge. “ It’s a pleasure
to talk to him. Yes, my buck !”
“ It’s hanging there now,” replied the boy.
“Isit ?” said Scrooge. “Go and buy it.”
“ Walk-Eit!” exclaimed the boy.
“ No, no,” said Scrooge, “lam in earnest. Go and buy it,
and tell ’em to bring it here, that I may give them the direc-
tion where to take it. Come back with the man and I’ll give
you a shilling. Come back with him in less than five minutes,
and I’ll give you half-a-crown !”
The boy was off like a shot. He must have had a steady
hand at a trigger who could have got a shot off half so fast.
“ I’ll send it to Bob Cratchit’s !” whispered Scrooge,
rubbing his hands, and splitting with a laugh. “He sha’n’t
know who sends it. It’s twice the size of Tiny Tim. Joe
Miller never made such a joke as sending it to Bob’s will be !”
The hand in which he wrote the address was not a steady
one, but write he did, somehow, and went down stairs to open
the street door, ready for the coming of the poulterer’s man
As he stood there, waiting his arrival, the knocker caught
his eye.
“ I shall love it, as long as I live !” cried Scrooge, patting
it with his hand. “ I scarcely ever looked at it before. What
an honest expression it has in its face! It’s a wonderful
knocker!—Here’s the Turkey. Hallo! Whoop! llow arc
you ! Merry Christmas!”
It ivas a Turkey ! He never could have stood upon his legs,
that bird. He would have snapped ’em short oft' in a minute,
like sticks of sealing-wax.
“Why, it’s impossible to carry that to Camden Town,” said
Scrooge. “ You must have a cab.”
The chuckle with which he said this, and the chuckle with
which he paid for the Turkey and the chuckle with which he
paid for the cab, and the chuckle with which he recompensed
the boy, were only to be exceeded by the chuckle with which
he sat down breathless in his chair again, and chuckled till
he cried.
Shaving was not an easy task, for his hand continued to
shake very much; and shaving requires attention, even when
you don’t dance while you arc at it. But if he had cut the
end of his nose off, he would have put a piece of sticking-
plaistev over it, and been quite satisfied.
He dressed himself “ all in his best,” and at last got out
into the streets. The people were by this time pouring forth,
as he had seen them with the Ghost of Christmas Present; and
walking with his hands behind him, Scrooge regarded every
one with a delighted smile. He looked so irresistibly pleasant,
in a word, that three or four good-humoured fellows said,
“Good morning, sir! A merry Christmas to you!” And
Scrooge said often afterwards, that of all the blithe sounds he
had ever heard, those were the blithest in his ears.
He had not gone far, when coming on towards him he
beheld the portly gentleman, who had walked into his count-
ing-house the day before and said, “ Scrooge and Marley’s l
believe?” It sent a pang across his heart to think how this
old gentleman would look upon him when they met; but he
knew what path lay straight before him, and he took it.
“My dear sir,” said Scrooge, quickening his pace, and
taking the old gentleman by both bis hands. “ How do you
do ? I hope you succeeded yesterday. It was very kind of you.
A merry Christmas to you, sir !”
“ Mr. Scrooge ?”
“Yes,” said Scrooge. “That is my name, and I fear it
may not be pleasant to you. Allow me to ask your pardon.-”
And will you have the goodness”—here Scrooge whispered in
his ear.
“ Lord bless me !” cried the gentleman, as if his breath were
gone. “My dear Mr. Scrooge, are you serious?”
“If you please,” said Scrooge. “ Not a farthing less. A
great many back-payments are included in it, I assure you.
Will you do me that favour ?”
“ My dear sir,” said the other, shaking hands with him.—
“ I don’t know what to say to such munifi—”
“ Don’t say anything, please,” retorted Scrooge. “ Come
and see me. Will you come and see me ?”
“ I will!” cried the old gentleman. And it was clear he
meant to do it.
“ Thank’ee,” said Scrooge. “ I am much obliged to you.
I thank you fifty times. Bless you J”
He went to church, and walked about th ■ streets, and


watched the people hurrying to and fro, and patted children on
the head, and questioned beggars, and looked down into the
kitchens of houses, and up to the windows; and found that
everything could yield him pleasure. He had never dreamed
that any walk —that anything —could give him so much hap-
piness. In the afternoon, he turned his steps towards his
nephew’s house.
He passed the door a dozen times, before he had the courage
to go up and knock. But he made a dash and did it:
“ Is your master at home, my dear ?” said Scrooge to the
girl. Nice girl! Very.
“ Yes, sir.”
“ Where is he, my love?” said Scrooge.
“ He’s in the dining-room, sir, along with mistress. I’ll
show you up stairs, if you please.”
“ Thank’ee. He knows me,” said Scrooge, with his hand
already on the dining-room lock. “ I’ll go in here, my dear.
He turned it gently, and sidled his face in, round the door.
They were looking at the table (which was spread out in great
array) ; for these young housekeepers are always nervous on
such points, and like to see that everything is right.
“ Fred !” said Scrooge.
Dear heart alive, how his niece by marriage started !
Scrooge had forgotten, for the moment, about her sitting in the
corner with the footstool, or he wouldn’t have done it, on any
account.
“ Why bless my soul !” cried Fred, “ who’s that?”
“ It’s I. Your uncle Scrooge. I have come to dinner. —
Will you let me in, Fred?”
Let him in ! It is a mercy he didn’t shake his arm off. He
was at home in five minutes. Nothing could be heartier.—
His niece looked just the same. So did Topper when he
came. So did the plump sister, when she came. So did every
one when they came. Wonderful party, wonderful games,
wonderful unanimity, won-der-ful happiness !
But he was early at the office next morning. Oh he was
early there. If he could only be there first, and catch Bob
Cratchit coming late 1 That was the thing he had set his
heart upon.
And he did it; yes he did! The clock struck nine. No
Bob. A quarter past. No Bob. He was full eighteen minutes
and a half, behind his time. Scrooge sat with his door wide
open, that he might see him come into the Tank.
His hat was off, before he opened the door; his comforter
too. He was on his stool in a jiffy; driving away with his
pen, as if he were trying to overtake nine o’clock.
“ Hallo !” growled Scrooge, in his accustomed voice as near
as he could feign it. “ What do you mean by coming here at
this time of day?”
“ I’m very sorry, sir,’ said Bob. “I am behind my time.”
“You are?” repeated Scrooge. “Yes. I think you are.
Step this way, if you please.”
“ It’s only once a year, sir,” pleaded Bob, appearing from
the Tank. “It shall not be repeated. I was making rather
merry yesterday, sir.”
“ Now, I’ll tell you what, my friend,” said Scrooge, “ I am
not going to stand this sort of thing any longer. And there-
fore,” he continued, leaping from his stool, and giving Bob
such a dig in the waistcoat that he staggered back into the
Tank again : “ and therefore I am about to raise your salary!”
Bob trembled, and got a little nearer to the ruler. He had
a momentary idea of knocking Scrooge down with it ; holding
him ; and calling to the people in the court lor help and a
strait-waistcoat.
“ A merry Christmas, Bob!” said Scrooge, with an earnest-
ness that could not be mistaken, as he clapped him on the
back. “ A merrier Christmas, Bob, my good fellow, than I
have given you, for many a year ! I’ll raise your salary, and
endeavour to assist your struggling family, and we will discuss
your affairs this very afternoon, over a Christmas bowl of
smoking bishop, Bob! , , .
Make up the fires, and buy another coal-scuttle before you
dot another i, Bob Cratchit!”
Scrooge was better than his word, he did it all, and mti-
nitely more; and to Tiny Tim, who did not die, lie was a
second father. He became as good a friend, as good a master,
and as good a man, as the good old city knew, or any other
good old city, town, or borough, in tire good old world. Some
people laughed to see the alteration in him, but he let them
laugh, and little heeded them ; for he was wise enough to know
that nothing ever happened on this globe, for at which
some people did not have their fill of laughter in the outset;
and knowing that such as these would be blind anyway, he
thought it quite as well tlfat they should wrinkle up their eyes
in grins, as have the malady in less attractive forms. His
own heart laughed: and that was quite enough for him.
He had no further intercourse with Spirits, but lived upon
the Total Abstinence Principle, ever afterwards; and it was
always said of him, that he knew how to keep Christmas well,
if any man alive possessed the knowledge. May that be truly
said of us, and all of us! And so, as Tiny Tim observed, God
Bless Us, Every One !
V arieties.
Education and Crime. —Lord Abinger, in his charge to
the Leicester grand jury at the spring assizes, 1836, complained
that education, as at present conducted, had increased instead
of diminished crime. “In looking at the calendar,” he said,
“ he perceived the proper descriptions of the education of the
prisoners—those who could read and write well—those who
could read and write imperfectly —and those who could not
read at all. in the list there were only three persons who
could not read ani write, out of a calendar of twenty persons ;
and the doctrine which was lately promulgated was—' give
the poor education, and you destroy crime.’ This had not
turned out to be the case with the calendar before the court;
for he found that most of the desperate robberies and burgla-
ries were committed by persons who could read and write well.
Now, although he never would discourage educating the
lower classes of society, he would still boldly affirm, that
education, if not founded on religious and moral principle,
instead of becoming a blessing to the poor, would in die end
turn out a curse. To give a sound education to the poor, moral
and religious instruction must accompany it—the receiver
must be well made to know not only the moral duties he has
to perform, but also the religious ones. Education without
religious instruction would not control the strong passions of
the human race ; and he had only again to repeat, that the
various calendars throughout the circuit had plainly convinced
him that it would be far better to leave the poorer classes of the
community in ignorance , than to give them an education which had
not for its groundwork our revealed and blessed religion .”
Nature, Reason, and Religion. —Nature bids me love
myself, and hate all that hurt me ; reason bids me love my
friends, and hate those that envy me ; religion bids me love all,
and hate none. Nature sheweth care, reason wit, religion
love. Nature may induce me, reason persuade me, but reli-
gion shall rule me. I will hearken to nature in much, to
reason in more, to religion in all. Nature shall make me
careful of myself, but hateful to none; reason shall make me
wise for myself, but harmless to all; religion shall make me
loving to all, but not careless of myself. I may hear the
former, I will hearken only to the latter. I subscribe to some
things in all, to all things in religion. — Warwick
The Fate of Men of Genius. —Plautus turned a mill.
Terence was a slave. Boethius died in a jail. Paulo Borgese
had fifteen different trades, and starved with them all. Tasso
was often distressed for five shillings. Servin, one of the
most learned and accomplished men of the age, died drunk in
a brothel. Bentivoglio was refused admittance into the very
hospital he founded; and Edmund Allen, contemporary with
Shakspeare, died in his own alms house. Corneille was poor
to a proverb. Racine left his family to be supported by his
friends. Crichton lost his life in a midnight brawl. Butler
was never master of fifty pounds. Otway is said to have died
with hunger. Camoens died in an hospital. Vaughan left
his body to the surgeons to pay his debts. Cervantes died for
want. Churchill died a beggar. Lloyd died in the Fleet.
Bickerstaff ran away for debt. Goldsmith, when he died,
owed two thousand pounds more than he possessed. Hugh
Kelly was in similar circumstances. Paul Hiffernon was
supported by a friendly subscription, Purden Jones, author
of the Earl of Essex , and Boyce, the poet, died in great dis-
tress ; the two former in an hospital, the latter in a garret.
Sterne left his family in penury; and Mrs. Manley, author of
The New Atlantes subsisted on charity; as did the widow of
Smollett; and Foote died pennyless. >t
A Good Man. —“ lam accounted by some a good man,”
says Charles Lamb. “ How cheap that character is acquired.
Pay your debts, don’t borrow money, nor twist your kittens
neck oft, nor disturb a congregation. &c. Your business is
done. . .
Satisfactory. —“ A very small bill Sir, just -—-• 1
dear Sir, entirely out of my power ! do me the favour to cal
to-morrow, and I’ll tell you when to call again.”


The Moralist.
PITY.
As blossoms and flowers are strewed upon the earth by the
hand of spring, as the kindness of summer produceth in per-
fection the bounties of harvest; so the smiles of Pity shed
blessings on the children of misfortune.
He who pitietb another, recommendeth himself; but he
who is without compassion, deservetli it not.
The butcher relenteth not at the bleating of the lamb ;
neither is the heart of the cruel moved with distress.
But the tears of the compassionate are sweeter than dew-
drops falling from roses on the bosom of the spring.
Shut not thine ear therefore against the cries of the poor ;
neither harden thine heart against the calamities of the
innocent.
When the fatherless call upon thee, when the widow’s
heart is sunk, and she imploreth thy assistance with tears of
sorrow ; O pity her affliction, and extend thy hand to those
who have none to help them.
When thou seest the naked wanderer of the street, shiver-
ing with cold, and destitute of habitation; let bounty open
thine heart, let the wings of charity shelter him from death,
that thine own soul may live.
Whilst the poor man groaneth on the bed of sickness, whilst
the unfortunate languish in the horrors of a dungeon, or the
hoary head of age lifts up a feeble eye to thee for pity ; O how
canst thou riot in superfluous enjoyment, regardless of their
wants, unfeeling of their woes!
MORAL MAXIMS.
ALPHABETICALLY ARRANGED.
No. 12.
An artful fellow is the devil in a doublet.
An ass, covered with gold, is more respected—than a horse
with a pack-saddle.
An ass, in a lion’s skin, may he discovered without spectacles.
A needy man’s budget is full of schemes.
An empty belly has no care.
An empty purse, and a new house, make a wise man too
late.
An enemy to beauty is a foe to nature.
An envious man waxes lean with the fatness of his neigh-
bour.
An evil conscience is the most unquiet companion.
An evil heart can make any doctrine heretical.
Anger and haste hinder good counsel.
Anger begins with folly and ends with repentance.
Pity ! the very sound is odious. I will not live to be
pitied. Pity is the miserable benison that goes to the beggar
with his dish. Pity dispenses to him the paltry dole that
gives him the privilege to live, to infest the wholesome air
with the breath of pestilent disease. Hatred—curses—injury
—these are things which a free spirit may encounter without
humiliation, since they demand courage to repel them, but
pity is contempt; it is the las*- insult an enemy can offer to
the fallen. Let all things else desert me, I will keep tfie
pride of a stout heart, that can be broken but by death itself.
Pride shall support me in bearing injuries and sorrows like
a man ; it shall give me that degree of strength which shall
enable me to assume before the world an aspect bordering on
indifference as to late events, for there is nothing I dread so
much as pity, and sympathy that often offends the disappointed,
instead of soothing the agitation of the mind. Pity to an
angry man, or to one soured by injuries, breathes in its con-
solation nothing but contempt. — Essayist .
Know that it you have a friend you ought to visit him
often. The road is grown over with grass, the bushes quickly
spread over it, if it be not constantly travelled. Be not the
first to break with a friend. Sorro gnaweth the heart of
him who hath no one to advise with but himself.— Runic
Magazine.
Judgment of Books.—l have no other rule by which to
judge of what I read, than that of consulting the dispositions
m which I rise up from my book; nor can I well conceive
what sort of merit any piece has to boast, the reading of which
leaves no benevolent impression behind it, nor stimulates the
reader to any thing that is virtuous or good Rousseau.
Money. Wisdom, knowledge, and power, all combined.
Select Poetry.
FAREWELL TO MARY.
Powers celestial, whose protection
Ever guards the virtuous fair !
While in distant climes I wander,
Let my Mary be your care :
Let her form sae fair and faultless,
Fair and faultless as your own ;
Let my Mary’s kindred spirit,
Draw your choicest influence down.
Make the gales you waft around her,
Soft and peaceful as her breast;
Breathing in the breeze that fans her
Soothe her bosom into rest:
Guardian Angels! O protect her,
While in distant lands I roam !
To realms unknown while fate exiles me
Make her bosom still my home.
BURNS.
RIVAL FLOWERS.
The towering Lily—as she stately rears
Her graceful head—a regal presence bears,
And the imperial air of Juno wears.
But the sweet Rose, whom nature fondly dowers
With beauty to adorn her fairest bowers,
I justly hail, the Venus among flowers!
Memoriter.
A PASSING VISION.
“ llow often is our path
Crossed by some being whose bright spirit sheds
A passing gladness o’er it; but whose course
Leads down another current, never more
To blend with ours! yet far within our souls,
Amidst the rushing of the busy world,
Dwells many a secret thought, which lingers still
Around that image.”— lbid.
TO-MORROW.
See where the falling day
In silence steals away
Behind the western hills withdrawn :
Her fires are quenched, her beauty fled,
While blushes all her face o’erspread,
As conscious she had ill fulfilled
The promise of the dawn.
Another morning soon shall rise,
Another day salute our eyes,
As smiling and as fair as she,
And make as many promises:
But do not thou
The tale believe,
They’re sisters all,
And all deceive.
MRS. BARBAULD.
A RIDDLE.
From rosy bowers we issue forth,
F rom east to west, from south to north,
Unseen, unfelt, hy night, by day,
Abroad we take our airy way:
We foster love and kindle strife,
The hitter and the sweet of life:
Piercing and sharp, we wound like steel;
Now, smooth as oil, those wounds we heal:
Not strings of pearl are valued more,
Or gems enchased in golden ore ;
Yet thousands of us every day,
Worthless and vile, are thrown awav.
Ye wise, secure with bars of brass '
The double doors through which we pass,
For, once escaped, back to our cell
No human art can us compel,— lbid,


i^ottce.
The Editor does not hold himself responsible for the opinions and
assertions contained in the correspondence and contributions in-
serted in the Colonial Literary Journal.
Notice to Correspondents.
“A. M. C.” The Extracts have been received, and shall be
gradually inserted.
All communications must be addressed to 11 The Editor of the
Colonial Literary Journal, General Printing Office, 133,
King-street East," (post paid.)
j&ottce to Country Subscribers.
Subscribers in the Country are requested to forward their names
and subscriptions to the nearest Agents, where no Agent has,
as yet, been appointed in their immediate neighbourhood; as
the expense of postage of a letter to the Publishers in Sydney,
is a considerable encroachment upon the very slender amount
of a Quarterly Subscription.
Subscribers are informed that as back Nos. cannot go through
the Post, they must inform us by what means the earlier Nos.
are to be forwarded to them without expense to the Publishers.
In answer to complaints of non-delivery of Papers, we can only
say that the Nos. have been regularly inserted in the Post
Office to their respective directions.
ELECTRICITY.
[Continued.]
Electricity when seen, is always as a subtle light,
but there is an immense variety in this light depend-
ing on the nature of the substance ignited. The
sparks emitted from the machine, or a cat’s back, are
occasioned by the same chemical and natural law as
the lightning in the heavens, namely, the sudden
compression of the air or medium through which they
pass, and is, as in combustion, the evidence of high
temperature. Spirits of wine and other inflammable
compounds may be set on fire by them, and small
animals have been struck blind or killed by electricity,
thus showing that the wondrous powers of machi-
nery are not merely imitations, but realities of the
same alarming power as lighting. It is the variety
in vapour which changes the state or form in masses
of the atmosphere. The lighter parts ascend to the high-
est place, and as the denser bodies must also rise in suc-
cession,the lighter will become compressed,which pres-
sure produces an evolution of heat and light. When
there is much rain, the electric fluid will pass with the
shower into the earth ; but if there is no rain, it is
in the form of a current or stream of light, in which
case it enters only into minute portions of matter that
present themselves to its attraction. A tree may be
struck down and destroyed, or perhaps it may pass
through a tree, destroying only a very small portion
of it; it may enter into the human body and cause
instant death, or it may enter only at an eye or
leg, and that organ or limb, will be the single sufferer.
It is the sudden and powerful pressure of the gases
in the air that causes the liquid light to be propelled
with such prodigious force, that the rapidity with
which it descends can scarcely be computed ; its
velocity surpasses even the imagination of man, for
it is no sooner visible than it has descended and dis-
appeared.
The Aurora Borealis, and Aurora Australis, are
also electric phenomena [which take place only in
the very highest regions of the atmosphere. They
sometimes appear in the form of an arch, at others as
dancing spirits, they are always visible at the north
and south poles.
Meteors, commonly called shooting or falling stars,
and fire balls, are also supposed to be the effects of
electricity, as they are usually seen when accumu-
lated fluid is present in the atmosphere, such as clear
nights, whether frosty, or in summer. They are
always very high in the atmosphere, and it is not
well known whether their bodies are always circu-
lating in the higher regions or whether they are simply
produced by concussion.
Meteoric iron, or stones, as they are called, have
been and are still frequently found on the earth. —
They are sometimes of great magnitude. Is is sup-
posed that they have fallen from the moon during
some of the volcanic eruptions which have taken place
in that planet, or from some other planetary orb,
where some great projectile force has induced them to
pass forward with so great a velocity that ignition
takes place, and they fall with great violence to the
earth. There is a very fine specimen of this meteoric
iron in the British museum.
Magnetism is a word signifying a power of attrac-
tion. There is so much agreement between the theo-
ries of magnetic attraction and induction, and those
of electricity, as not to admit a doubt of their being
the same in principle. Magnetic attraction is most
powerfully seen in a particular ore of iron called the
loadstone, which is a species of iron found in the earth
saturated with oxygen and is called a native oxide of
iron. This iron possesses the property of attracting
other pieces of iron towards itself. It is of the mag-
netic iron that the hand of the Mariner’s compass is
made, which, though it will for a time vibrate when
set in motion, will always settle pointed to the north
and south ; this property in the magnet is called its
Polarity. Magnetic iron also possesses the power of
exciting magnetism in other bodies. The mere ap-
proach of a magnet renders iron or steel magnetic,
the nearer they meet the more powerful is the effect.
Also a bar of steel rubbed for some time in the same
direction upon a native magnet is rendered perma-
nently magnetic. The property of conveying mag-
netism from one object to another is called magnetic
induction. In the Galvanic battery the metals are
immersed in diluted sulphuric acid, and united by
metal wires. When thus united the liquid becomes
decomposed, for the zinc attracts the oxygen, and being
partly dissolved by the acid, becomes an oxide, while
the hydrogen contained in liquid passes off in vapour.
It must be observed by those who reflect on this
subject, that oxygen is the grand source of all heat,
electricity and magnetism, It is the basis of all acids,
and all acids have a great portion of latent heat ;
mineral acids will burn any substanee on which they
are dropped ; oxygen is the supporter of all combus-
tion, it is the basis of magnetic iron, its combination
with zinc in the Galvarfic battery excites electricity,
and its union with hydrogen gas in the atmosphere
causes the heat and light named electricity.
May not the inference be drawn that all electricity
is extremest heat , and oxygen the match to set it on
fire ?
B.
He who has so little knowledge of human nature, as to
seek happiness by changing anything but his own disposition?,
will waste his life in fruitless efforts, and multiply the grid*
which he purposes to remove.— Rambler.


DIRECTIONS FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF
THE VINE.
No. 11.
“ A few brief rules are sometimes more beneficial than long
disquisitions.” *
I mentioned my in ntion of giving a few brief direc-
tions on the management of the vine, in addition to
my translation of Virgil’s hints on the subject, and am
now prepared to redeem my promise, previously no-
ticing two typographical errors which occurred in that
article, viz,, for “ extended smoke,” reqd “ extended
snake,” and for “ unpublished verse” read “ unpo-
lished verse.”
In choosing a site for a vineyard, a great deal de-
pends on the nature of the soil and the aspect it may
have. To reap a successful vintage, the soil must be
that between the light sand and stiff clay—either
black, brown, or yellow soils, are adapted to the pur-
pose ; and the site chosen should be North West, or
North, possessing a slight declivity and sheltered from
the southerly winds.
There are very few farms in the colony deficient
in the requisites necessary for the formation of a vine-
yard, and such being the case, there seems to me to
be good cause of regret to those interested in the
welfare of our adopted country, that the vine is not
more universally cultivated.
If an eligible spot be fixed on, take care that the
slope be rendered equable by filling up carefully every
hollow in the ground, in order to prevent the lodge-
ment of water which is very deleterious. I have seen
the evil results of this myself, in a vineyard which
had been partly trenched, and hollows left here and
theie; all the vines adjoining these holes became un-
fruitful and comparatively stunted, and the grape
they pioduced w r as small and late in ripening.
In endeavouring to find out the cause, I came to
the above conclusion, from reasons I am about to
give -.—The water which lodged in these holes became
stagnant, which rotted the roots of the adjoining vines,
especially those newly planted ; or else they became
unfruitful because they could not extend their roots,
the intervening spaces having been filled, and conse-
quently they became unhealthy.
Some persons question very much the propriety of
trenching Colonial lands, but they form an opinion
horn the soft and saturated soil of the mother-country
between which and the colonial lands there is very
little analogy. Every one who has given the slightest
attention to the matter, must be aware that colonial
lands (generally speaking) have but a very thin
layer of vegetable mould over a stiff sub-soil—very
often of iron-stone, which is impervious to moisture.
I have seen occasional exceptions, but not extensive
ones ; for instance, belts of fine deep vegetable mould,
running through part of a farm bounded by that
described above, which retains but little moisture •
consequently when the surface becomes heated and
parched the plants can receive no nourishment from
the hard impervious sub-soil ; this at a glance will
exp ain the necessity of trenching most colonial lands,
at least such as I have seen in the course of my peri-
gri nations. J 1
Horticulturists inform us that no matter how
abundan soever the soil may be in the necessary
qualifications for the nourishment of plants, they will
be of little avail unless piesented to the roots through
a liquid medium, that is, unless a sufficiency of I
moisture be conveyed to the plant. Now during the
frying months of December and January, untrenched
land rapidly steams off its moisture, because there
is so little depth of vegetable surface, and plants
become exhausted ; but most of all, the vine—for its
evaporation exceeds that of any other, and is so con-
siderable, that it requires in the space of twelve hours
fifty-two inches of sap to supply the exhalation from
its leaves during that period.
From this it is evident that the vine requires a
suitable degree of moisture, which can only be
obtained by trenching, where the sub-soil is stiff or
composed of ironstone.
By this operation, the earth is rendered porous and
adapted to imbibe the rain like a sponge, and hold it,
as it were, for a time of need ; for instead of flowing
off the surface as it falls, it readily sinks, and during
the dry months, emits its vivifying influence to invigo-
rate the plant. Having now prepared our land we
will commence planting. In trenched lands the
distance of four or six feet apart will be sufficient for
each cutting or root. It may not be amiss here to
remark, that trenched land is liable to bake or bind
so as to become very hard, which is easily prevented
by a coating of any kind of manure ; this may be
styled troublesome, but it will ensure success.
The southerly w-inds which generally succeed the
hot one from the north-west, are exceedingly injuri-
ous to the young fruit, rendering them hard and
stunted, and blackened wholly or in part. To pre-
vent this, a north or north-west aspect, as I have before
observed, is necessary with a slight declivity in that
direction. It has often struck me that the object
would be further advanced by a double plantation of
Mimosas or other fast-growing trees, to the south of
the vineyard. I have two other objects in view by
this plantation, in fact three. First, by including
within this belt of evergreens a space of twenty-five
feet, I would have an agreeable promenade— a thing
much wanted in some of our denuded patches of
cleared land. Secondly, insuring an equality of
temperature to the vineyard. And, lastly, though
not the least important, for the sake of the fine gum
which I should collect, and for the excellent bark I
should be able to supply myself with for the purposes
of tanning.
T. L. D.
THE GRIDIRON; OR, PADDY MULLOWNEY’S
TRAVELS IN FRANCE.
Matthews, in his “ Trip to Ameriea,” gives a ludi-
crous representation of an Irishman who has left his
own country on the old fashioned speculation of
“ seeking his fortune.”—and who, after various pre-
vious failures in the pursuit, at length goes into the
back settlements with the intention of becoming in-
terpreter general between the Yankees and the Indian
tribes—but the Indians rejected his proferred service,
“ T/ze P oor ignorant craytures ,” as he himself says
“just because he did not understand their language.”
We are told, moreover, that Goldsmith visited the
land of dykes and dams, for the purpose of teaching
the Hollanders English, quite overlooking (until his
arrival in the country made it obvious) that he did
not know a word of Dutch himself. I have prefaced
the following story thus, in the hope that the “pre-
cedent, which covers so many absurdities in law,
may be considered available by the author, as well


as the suitor, and may serve a turn in the court of
criticism, as well as in the common pleas.
A certain old gentleman in the west of Ireland
whose love of the ridiculous quite equalled his taste
for claret and fox-hunting, was wont, upon certain
festive occasions when opportunity offered, to amuse
his friends by drawing out one of his servants who
was exceeding fond of what he termed his “ travels ”
and in whom, a good deal of whim, some queer
stories, and perhaps more than all, long and faithful
services, had established a right of loquacity. He was
one of those few trusty and privileged domestics, who
if his master unheedingly uttered a rash thing in a fit
of passion, would venture to set him right. If the
squire said “ I’ll turn that rascal off,” my friend Pat
would say, “ troth you won’t Sir and Pat was
always right, for if any altercation arose upon the
(< subject matter in hand,” he was sure to throw in
some good reason, either from former service—ge-
neral good conduct —or the delinquent’s “ wife and
childer,” that always turned the scale.
But lam digressing: on such merry meetings as I
have alluded to, the master, after making certain
11 approaches,” as a military man would say, as the
preparatory steps in laying seige to some extravaganza
of his servant, might perchance,assail Pat thus : “ By
the bye, Sir John, (addressing a distinguished guest,)
Pat has a very curious story, which something you
told me to-day reminds me of. You remember Pat,
(turning to the man, evidently pleased at the notice
thus paid to himself,) you remember that queer ad-
venture you had in France V'
“ Throoth I do, Sir,” grins forth Pat.
u What!” exclaims Sir John, in feigned surprise,
“ was Pat ever in France'?”
“ Indeed he was” cried my host ; and Pat adds,
“ ay, and farther, plaseyour honour.”
“ I assure you, Sir John,” continues my host,
“ Pat told me a story once that surprised me very
much, respecting the ignorance of the French.”
“ Indeed !” rejoins the baronet, “ really, I always
supposed the French to be a most accomplished people.
“ Throth then, they’re not, sir interrupts Pat.
<• Oh, by no means,” adds mine host, shaking his
head emphatically.
“ I believe, Pat, ’twas when you were crossing the
Atlantic,” says the master, turning to Pat with a se-
ductive air, and leading into the “ full and true
account” —(for Pat had thought fit to visit North
Amerikay, for “ a reason he had,” in the autumn of
the year ninety-eight.)
“ Yes, Sir,” says Pat, “ the broad Atlantic, a
favourite phrase of his, which he gave with a brogue
as broad, almost, as the Atlantic itself.
“ It was the time I was lost in crassin’ the broad
Atlantic, a cornin’ home,” began Pat, decoyed into the
recital ; “ whin the winds began to blow, and the sae
to rowl, that you’d think the Collen dhas (that w 7 as
her name,) would not have a mast left but what would
rowl out of her.
Well, sure enough, the masts went be the boord
at last, the pumps was choak’d, (divil choak them for
that same,) and av coorse the wather gained an us,
and troth to be filled with wather is neither good for
man or baste ; and she was sinkin’ fast, settlin down,
as the sailors calls it, and faith I never was good at
settlin’ down in my life, and I liked it then less nor
ever ; accordianly we prepared for the worst, and put
out the boat, and got a sack o’ bishkits, and a cashk o’
pork, and akag o’ wather, and a thrifle o' rum aboord,
and any other little mathers we could think iv in the
mortal hurry we wor in—-and faith there was no time
to be lost, for my darlint, Collen dhns ,■ went down like
a lump o' lead, afore we wor many strokes o f the oar
away from her.
Well, we drifted away all that night and next
mornin’ we put up a blanket and the ind av a pole as
well as we could, and then we sailed iligant, for we
darn’t show a stitch o’ canvass the night before, bekase
it was blowin’ like bloody murther, savin’ your pre -
sence and sure it’s the wondher of the world we worn’t
swally’d alive by the ragin’ sae.
Well away we wint, for more nor a week, and no-
thin’ before our two good lookin’ eyes but the canopy
iv heaven, and the wide ocean. And then, soon enough
troth, our provisions began to run low, the bishkits
and the wather, arfd the rum —troth that was gone
first of all—God help uz —and oh it was thin that
starvation began to stare us in the face—Oh murther,
murther captain darlint, says I, “ I wish we could see
land any where,” says I.
“ More power to your elbow, Paddy, my hoy,”
says he, “ for sitch a good wish and troth it’s myself
wishes the same.”
“ Oh,” says I, “ that it may plaze you, sweet queen
iv heaven, supposing it was only a dissolute island,”
says I, “ inhabited wid Turks, sure they wouldn’t
be such bad Christians as to refuse us a bid and a
sup.”
“ Whisth, whisth, Paddy,” says the captain, “ don’t
be talkin’ bad of any one,” says he, “ you don’t know
how soon you may "want a good word put in for
yourself, if you should be called to quarthers in th’
other world all of a suddent,” says he.
‘ £ Thrue for you, captain darlint,” says I—l called
him darlint, and made free wid him you see, bekase
distress makes us all equal. Well, the last bishkit
was sarved out, and by gor the wather itself was all
gone at last, and we passed the night mighty cowld—
well, at the break o’ day the sun riz most beautifully
out o’ the waves, that was as bright as silver and as
clear as cryshtal; when all at wanstl thought I spied
the land —by gor I thought I felt my heart up in my
throat in a minuit, and ££ thunder an turf, captain,
says I, “ look to leeward,” says I.
££ What for ? ” says he.
££ I think I see the land.” says I. So he ups with
his bring-’m near, (that’s what the sailors call a spy-
glass, sir,) and looks out, and sure enough it was.
“ Hurra !” says he, ££ we’re all right now; pull
away boys,” says he.
££ Take care you’re not mistaken,” says I; 11 may
be its only a fog-bank, captain, darlint,” says I.
££ Oh no,” says he, ££ its the land in airnest.”
££ Oh then, whereabouts in the wide world are w-e,
captain?” says I, 11 may be it id be in Tloosia, or
Proosia, or in the Garman Oceant,” says I.
“ Tut, you fool,” says -he—for he had that consaited
way wid him, thinkin’ himself cleverer than any one
else — 11 tut, you fool,” says he, ££ that’s France ,
says he.
££ Tare an ouns,” says I, “ do you tell me so . and
how do you know its Prance it is, captain dear ?
says' I. „
££ Bekase this is the Bay o’ Bishky we’re in now,
says he.


“ Throth, I was thinkin’ so myself,” says I, “ by
the rowl it has ; for I often heard av it in regard o’
the same : and troth the likes of it I never seen
before nor since, and, with the help of God, never
will!”
Well with that my heart began to grow light, and
when I seen my life was safe, I began to grow twice
hungrier nor ever; so says I, “ captain, jewel, I wish
we had a gridiron.”
“ Why then, tlnindher and turf,” says he, •* what
puts a gridiron into your head '?”
“ Bekase I’m starvin’ with the hunger,” says T.
“ And sure bad luck to you,” says he, “ you
couldn’t ate a gridiron,” says he, “ barrin’ you wor a
pelican o’ the wildherness ,” says he.
“ Ate a gridiron!” says I; “ och, in throth I’m
not sitch a gommoch all out as that, any how. But
sure if we had a gridiron we could dress a beefsteak,”
says I.
“ Arrah ! but where’s the beefsteak ?” says he.
“ Sure, couldn’t we cut a slice aff pork,” says I.
“ By gor, I never thought o’ that,” says the captain.
“ You’re a clever fellow, Paddy,” says he, laughing.
“ Oh, there’s many a thrue word said in joke,”
says I.
“ Thrue for you, Paddy,” says he.
“ Well, then,” says I, “ if you put me ashore
there beyant,” (for we were nearin’ the land all the
time,) “ and sure I can ax them for to lind me the
loan of a gridiron,” says I.
“ Oh, by gor the butther’s cornin’ out o’ the stir-
about in airnest now,” says he, “ you gommoch,”
says he, “ sure I towld you before that’s France, and
sure they’re all furriners there,” says the captain.
“ Well,” says I, •< and how do you know but I’m
as good a furriner myself as any o’ thim
“ What do you mane'?” says he.
“ I mane,” says I, “ what I towld you, that I’m
as good a furriner myself as any o’ thim.”
“ Make me sensible,” says he.
“ By dad, may be that’s more nor me, or greater
than me, could do,” says I; and we all began to
laugh at him, for I thought I’d pay him off for his
bit o’ consait about the German Oceant.
“ Leave aff your humbuggin’,” says he, “I bid you,
and tell me what it is you mane at all, at all ?”
“ Parley voo Frongsay ,” says I.
“ 0h > y° ur humble servant,” says he. “ Why, by
gor you’re a scholar, Paddy.” J
“ Troth, you may say that,” says I.
“ Why, you’re a clever fellow, Paddy,” says the
captain, jeerin’ like.
•‘ You’re not the first that said that,” says I,
“ whether you joke or no.”
“Oh, but I’m in airnest,” says the captain ; “ and
Frinch 11 Paddy ’” says he ’ “ that y° u s P ake
“ Parley voo Frongsay ,” says I.
“ By gor that bangs Banagher, and all the world
knows Banagher bangs the devil; I never met the
hkes o you Paddy,” says he; “ pull away boys, and
put ] addy ashore, and may be we wont get a good
belly-full before long.” &
So with that it was no sooner said nor done—they
pulled away and got close into shore in less than no
time, and run the boat up in a little creek, and a beau-
tiful little creek it was with a lovely white sthrand
an llligant, place for ladies to bathe in the summer—
and out I got, and its stiff enough in my limbs I was
after bein’ cramped up in the boat, and perished vvitli
the cowld and hunger ; but I contrived to scramble on,
one way or the other, tow’rds a little bit iv a wood
that was close to the shore, and the smoke, curlin’ out
of it quite timptin’ like.
“ By the powdhers o’ war, I’m all right,” says I ;
“ there’s a house there”—and sure enough there was,
and a parcel of men, women and children, ating their
dinner round a table quite convaynient. And so I
wint up to the door, and I thought I’d be very civil
to thim, as I heard the French was mighty p’lite in-
tirely—and I thought I’d shew them I knew what
good manners was.
So I took aff me hat and making a low bow, says
I, “ God save all here.”
Well to be sure they all stopt ating at wanst and
begun to stare at me, and faith they almost looked me
out of countenance—and I thought to myself it was
not good manners at all—more be token from furri-
ers, which they call so mighty p’lite ; but I never
minded that in regard to wantin’ the gridiron, “ and
so,” says I, “ I beg your pardon,” says I, “for the
liberty I take, but its only bein’ in disthress in
regard of ating,” says I, “ that I make bowld to
trouble yez, and if you could lind me the loan of a
gridiron,” say I, “ I’d be entirely obleeged to ye.”
By gor, they all started at me twice worse nor
before, and with that, says I, (knowing what was in
their minds,) “ indeed it’s thrue for you,” says I ;
“ I’m bathered to pieces, and God knows I look quare
enough, but it’s by raison of the storm,” says I,
“which dhruv us a shore here below, and we’re all
starvin’,” says I.
So then they began to look at each other again ;
and myself, seeing at w r anst dirty thoughts was in
their heads, and that they tuk me for a poor beggar
cornin’ to crave charity—with that, says I, “ Oh ! not
at all,” says I, “ by no manes ; we have plenty o’
mate ourselves, there below, and we’ll dhress it,” says
I, “ if you would be plased to lind us the loan of a
gridiron,” says I, makin’ a low bow\
Well, sir, with that, troth they stared at me twice
worse nor ever, and faith I began to think that may
be the captain w as wrong, and that it was not France
at all at all; and so says I, “ I beg pardon, sir,” says
I, to a fine ould man, wdth a head of hair as white as
silver, “ maybe I’m undher a mistake,” says I; “ but
I thought I was in France, sir ; aren’t you furriners ?”
says I. “ Parley voo Frongsay /”
“ We munseer,” says he.
Then would you lind me the loan of a gridiron ”
says I, “ if you plase ?”
Oh, it was thin that they stared at me, as if I had
siven heads; and faith myself began to feel flusthered
like, and onaisy, and so says I, makin’ a bow and
scrape again, «• I know its a liberty I take, sir,” says
I, “ but its only in the regard of bein’ cast away, and
if you plase, sir,” says I, “ Parley voo Frongsay V'
“ We munseer,” says he, mighty sharp.
“ Then w r ould you lind me the loan of a gridiron
says I, “ and you’ll obleege me !”
Well, sir, the old chap began to munseer me, but
the divil a bit of a gridiron he’d gi’ me ; and so I
began to think they were all neygars, for all their
fine manners; and troth my blood began to rise, and
says I, ‘ By my sowl, if it was you in disthriss,” says
I, ‘and if it w r as to ould Ireland you kern, its not


only the gridiron they’d give you, if you axed it, but
something to put an it too, and the dhrop o’ dhrink
into the bargain, and cead mile faille.”
Well, the word cead mile failte seemed to sthreck
his heart, and the ould chap cocked his ear, and so I
thought I’d give him another offer, and make him
sensible at last; and so says I, wanst more, quite slow,
that he might undherstand, “ Parley —iwo — Frongsay,
munseer ?”
“ We munseer,” says he.
“ Then lind me the loan of a gridiron,” says I,
“ and bad scram to you.”
Well, bad win’ to the bit of it he’d gi’ me, and
the ould chap begins bowin’ and scrapin’ and said
something or other about a long tongs.
“ Phoo ! —the divil sweep yourself and your tongs,”
says I, “ I don’t want a tongs at all at all; but can’t you
listen to raison,” says I — “ Parley voo Frongsay ?”
“ We munseer.”
“ Then lind me the loan of the gridiron,” says I,
“ and howld your prate.”
Well, what would you think, but he shook his
ould noddle, as much as to say he wouldn’t; and so
says I, “ Bad cess to the likes o’ that I ever seen—
throth if you wor in my counthry it’s not that-a-way
they’d use you ; the curse o’ the crows on you, you
owld sinner,” says I, “ the devil a longer I’ll darken
your door.”
“ So he seen I was vex’d, and I thought, as I was
turnin’ away, I seen him begin to relint, and that his
conscience throubled him ; and says I, turnin’ back,
“ Well, I’ll give you one chance more —you owld
thief—are you a Christhian at all at all ? are you a
furriner ?” says I, “ that all the world calls so p’lite.
Bad luck to you, do you undherstand your own lan-
guage'? — Parley voo Frongsay ,” say, X.
“ We munseer,” says he.
“ Then thundher and turf,” says I, “ will you lind
me the loan of a gridiron '?”
Well sir, the devil resave the bit of it he’d gi’ me
-—and so with that, the “curse o’ the hungry an you,
you owld negarly villian,” says I; “ the back o’ my
hand and the sowl o’ my fut to you ; that you may
want a gridiron yourself yet,” says I ; “ and where-
ever I go, high and low, rich and poor, shall hear o’
you,” says I; and with that I left them there, sir, and
kem away —and in throth its often sence,that/ thought
it was remarlcable. —Stories of Ireland.
The Clubs. —“Will your lordship take coffee before you
go out?” inquired Sandford, when he had received the order.
“No, I’m going to the Athenaeum, I’ll get some there ; let
the carriage come round directly.” What hot-beds of mascu-
line selfishness these said clubs are! No wonder the homes
for which it is neither convenient nor agreeable to provide the
bare necessaries of life should be deserted for luxuries that are
to be had at a cheaper rate; and even to those whose ample
means secure the same style of living at home. Yet, to nine
Englishmen out of ten, who detest ladies’ society, and never
desire to see a woman’s face, unless'it be those belonging to
ladies of a certain description, the luxury of hats and dirty
boots is irresistible, to say nothing of “ the Club” and “ the
House of Commons,” being always unquestionable places to
note in the conjugal log-book. It would save a great deal of
trouble to inquiring foreigners, if, for the future, lexicographers
would insert opposite the word “home”—a place for keeping
wives and’children, “ mutton chops,”—food for ditto. —Lady
Buhver*s Cheveley.
Original Poetry.
EXTRACT FROM “SCENES IN MANEROO,” N.S.W.
TAKEN FROM THF. SPOT : BY A SHEPHERD.
[An unpublished 4 Work.]
Then lives there then that being who wouliTdare
Doubt the existence of a living God ;
Or viewing Earth, magnificently fair,
Or starred skies, th’ Creator’s blest abode!
Alas, the wily serpent yet does cling
Round human hearts in frailty'perishing.
Look on the sunshine streaming from above*
Waking with beauty’s blush the new-blown flower,
And trembling boughs whose blossoms bright of love
Welcome with balmy sweets the halcyon hour!
See how the leaves in Cupid’s roseate cell
Enfold the heart where love and beauty dwell.
There’s not a blossom budding on the bough
But thrills with gladness ’neath the vernal breeze,
And whispering, sighs full many an artless vow
To its frail partner —blushing ’mid the leaves !
And when the moon on earth her light o’erspreads
With smiles to Heaven, they droop o’er crimson beds.
There’s not a flower but meekly blushing tells
The Master hand that pencilled its fair form ;
There’s not a tree, whose blooming foliage swells,
But proudly speaks His grandeur in the storm —
His the bright drapery of the noon-day sky,
And His the night’s star-spangled canopy.
There’s not a bird amid the forest'wild,
When morn with rosy lip laughs night away,
But carols loud, with spirit undefiled,
To bless the dawning of each glorious day ;
And when sweet eve’ reflects her widowed light,
How sweet their vesper hymn—their last good night.
There’s not a stream whose crystal water flows,
But murmuring breathes sweet music to His praise,
And on its mirror clear reflecting shews
Heaven’s sunny image—lit with sunbeam’s rays;
And flowerets wild their incense showering fling
Back unto heaven—fair Nature’s offering.
There’s not a wave, that bounding sweeps along,
But in its hollow moan warns sinful man—
God’s wondrous power —when from among
The depths of ocean’s storm, with fearful span —
It grasps it’s ocean toy, the buoyant brave,
And hurls it shivering to its yawning grave.
Borne on the tempest—sweeping the dark waves—
His sleepless spirit soars both day and night:
Tho’ wrath in ire—in mercy yet He saves
His sinful creatures, trembling with affright:
On the mild face of ocean’s slumbering sea
It calmly rests —in heavenly majesty.
There’s not a cloud, that wings its flight on high,
But from its fleecy breast gives gladsome birth
To dewy tears of heavenly sympathy
To cheer the offspring of its sister earth ;
And, when to other worlds they wend their way,
Heaven still smiles on thro’ many a summer’s day.
There’s not a star, amid the countless throng
Of dazzling fair ones gemming heaven’s parterre—-
But sheds its light of love—floating along
Night-shadowed earth, in beauty richly fair—
Yet cloud, star, flower, the stream and wild wave free,
Mark but God’s power —His boundless majesty.
Then where the heart, howe’er so dead it be,
But deeply feels Jehovah’s mighty hand
Rules throughout all—incomprehensible —
On the wide ocean sea, in air, on land ?
His mighty hand, pregnant with heavenly power
In mercy governs to time’s final hour.
And all to Him their silent homage pay
In every season and in every clime —
In gloom or sunshine—night or rising day —
From first creation to the end of time.
And man himself, endowed with reason’s light,
Sees God in all—His power —unbounded might!


Mr. Justice Burton’s Portrait. —Inviccordance
with our promise last week, we proceed to set before
our readers a few remarks on the portrait of Mr.
Justice Burton. If we except the position of the
figure, the composition of the picture is exceedingly
good. His Honor is represented standing with one
hand resting on a table, the other hanging down by
his side ; but from the position of the feet, (the weight
of the figure resting equally on each foot,) the lines
of the drapery assume a formal and inelegant figure.
On the table, with its green cover at once contrasting
and relieving the red-hues of the drapery, lies a
book ofsolaw-like an appearance, that, though we can-
not see the title page, we are quite sure it is nearly
related to Coke, Lyttleton, or Blackstone. The back-
ground is simple and unobtrusive, and the opening at the
side afforded an opportunity for the introduction of a
cool grey tint, which not only balances the bright
parts of the picture, but gives air over the whole.
The likeness is striking, and knowing how very few
■were the sittings afforded by His Honor, we were not
a little surprised at its success. The colouring is
clear and transparent—at once chaste and rich—and
the flesh tints, particularly on the right hand, strik-
ingly natural. We congratulate the artist on his
success, and we trust that every testimony of public
respect, of a like nature, will in future be—like the
present—a portrait; which will, at the same time
that it promotes colonial talent, hold out to the
esteem of posterity the form of that man who was
considered, whilst living, an honour and an ornament
to the colony.
IMMENSE COPPER BALLOON.
The curiosity of the scientific world in Paris has just been
raised to the boiling point by the construction of a vast
balloon of copper, which is so far completed as to be exhibited
to the public. The constructor of this huge work is M. Marey-
Monge ; and should his anticipations be realised as to the
practicability of employing this balloon fer purely scientific
purposes—as in electrical and magnetic phenomena—M.
Arago will introduce it to the French Institute.
This balloon is completely composed of sheets of copper, the
200th part of an inch in thickness. The idea of the construc-
tion of a metal balloon originated with Lans in 1760 ; and
subsequently, in 1784, another metal balloon was constructed
by Guyton de Morveau. In the present balloon, the sheets of
copper, united by bands, like the ribs of a melon, have been
soldered by de Richemont’s autogenous process. They occupy
an extent of about 1500 yards. The balloon itself is about ten
yards in diameter, and weighs 800 pounds, and will contain
100 pounds of hydrogen gas.
It is stated in the Parisian journals, that M. Dupuis Del-
court, the celebrated French aeronaut, will shortly make an
ascent in this balloon. The main object proposed by its con-
structor, M. Marey-Monge, is the power of directing balloons
by a system which he has developed in a memoir submitted to
the French Academy. One of the advantages gained by tha
substitution of copper for silk, or other fibrous material, is
that the metal will prevent the escape of gas, so that the
aeronaut may remain a long time in the air, and thus be ena-
bled to study the constant atmospheric currents. It is like-
wise proposed to employ this balloon in deciding whether it
is possible to prevent hail, which is due to the electricity of the
clouds. Thus, as the balloon may be kept suspended a long
time in the atmosphere, if it were connected with the earth by
a metal wire, it would thus conduct the electricity from the
clouds, and thereby prevent the formation of hail, so destruc-
tive to agriculture. This idea of rendering a balloon a paragrele
is ingenious enough, and we shall be happy to witness its execu-
tion. IS e vertheless, we have yet to learn the advantage of metal
over varnished silk, which has been brought to great perfection
in this country, by our veteran aeronaut, Mr. Green, in the
construction of his balloons. Altogether, we fear this Copper
Balloon will prove another “ Aerial Machine,”—a very nega-
tive merit.— lllustrated London News.
German Education. —Since no where in the world exist
such ample and easily accessible institutions for education as
in Germany, we are naturally led to inquire into the influence
which they exert on the well-being of society. There is no
science, and there are very few arts, which may not there most
easily and very cheaply be studied by all who are desirous ;
the means of a decent education is open to all —are almost
forced upon all; and the faculties of acquiring a most complete
education is denied to none. What, then, are the fruits which
this deeply-rooted and widely-spreading tree are found to pro-
duce ? the answer is most difficult; we are anxious to afford it
impartially. It lies in a simple fact, which is too often ex-
cluded from the argument of education ; whatsoever education
may be given to mankind, one half of the number who nomi-
nally receive it, will scarcely be found to have derived much
permanent and final advantage from it, or to retain much in
their memory. Lecture-rooms may be opened gratuitously,
books may be accumulated, but early impressions, accidents,
indolence, and bad dispositions, will defeat our expectations.
It is a melancholy truth, but it must be told. Although a small
knot of individuals in Germany is more learned than a similar
number to be found in any other country, who create and de-
vour more books than any others, yet it will hardly be asserted
that the bulk of the German nation are more virtuous, more
wise, more agreeable, more temperate in the enjoyments of
life, more useful in their generation, than the corresponding
mass of some other European communities which possess the
opportunities of mental improvement in a more limited extent,
It is one thing to learn, and another to retain and to practise ;
when the studious and practical combine in the same individual,
then alone is the higher character of man developed ; but such
a union occurs rarely anywhere, and not often in Germany.
We admit, with pleasure, one distinguished result of education
in Germany—the respect which is paid to the literary and
scientific character. On the other hand, it must be confessed,
that the most favorable position, with regard to mental cultiva-
tion, conducts there more frequently to a refined taste in the
fine arts, or to a barren condition, than to those pursuits which
have for their aim the general improvement of humanity. The
German will reply, that his exclusion from active political life
is the source ; but a wide field is still open for all the best
energies of his nature, in the cultivation of the Christian cha-
racter, and one in which there are few competitors ; and a surer
recompense, than in the Chamber of Deputies, or in the
columns of a newspaper. Unsettled principles of action are too
often his blemish. It appears to me that one essential defect
in the system of German university education is the absence of
a good pervading instruction in religion ; it is true that there
are numerous theological courses delivered for the benefit of
students destined for the church, but these do not reach the
mass of other pupils; they do not necessarily participate in
, this first and last requisite of an elevated education. Every
science is copiously taught, is almost over-taught, except that
master-science which alone teaches us rightly to apply all the
rest, without which all the rest are comparatively valueless,
and which, if not sown in the earlier years of our existence, will
seldom find a fertile soil. — Dr. Bissett Hawkins' Germany.
COMMERCIAL REVIEW.
During the past week, a slight improvement in business may
be noticed. Various sales have been effected, and enquiries
made for general articles of consumption, which are getting
scarce. The tea and sugar markets remain very firm. A lot of
black tea (500 boxes) has changed hands ; also, hyson-skin,
the figure has not transpired. Cigars are scarce and in demand,
holders are firm for higher rates. The cargo, Ex St. George,
is assorted, consisting principally of salt, beer (in wood and
bottle), drapery goods, wool-packs, tobacco, &c. 50 tons of
curing salt, Ex Falcon, from the Sandwich Islands, has been
nearly all disposed of, the remainder is offered at £7 per ton.
Wheat. —This market is depressed, owing to the supply
kept up from Van Dieman’s Land. 1400 bushels of Adelaide
wheat, Ex Martha and Elizabeth, realized only 3s. 9d. per
bushel, cash.
Flour —This article remains without any alteration in price.
Maize. —The abundant supply coast-wise during the past
week, has found purchasers; the stock to come into the
market is rapidly decreasing, and a rise in price may be antici-
pated. It may be quoted at 13d. per bushel, wholesale.
In other articles no alteration in price has occurred worthy
of note.
B. S. LLOYD
Commission Agent, Bridge-street,
September Iltb, 1844.


Shipping Entdltgencc.
ARRIVALS.
September 6.—The schooner Sultana, 120 tons. Captain
Scott, from Tahiti, 29th July, Roratonga 4th, and Navigator
Islands I9th August, with cocoanut oil, &c.
September 6.—The cutter Ranger, 46 tons, Captain Rogers,
from the Bay of Islands 19th July, and Newcastle the sth
instant, with gum, &c.
September 7. —The schooner Wanderer, 131 tons, Captain
Burns, from Launceston, the 30th August, with wheat, &c.
September 7 —The schooner Martha and Elizabeth, 81
tons, Captain Devlin, fr'om Port Phillip 29th August, with
sundries.
September 9.—-The steamer Shamrock, 200 tons, Captain
Gilmore, from Port Phillip 31st August, Launceston the sth,
and Boyd Town the Bth instant, with sperm oil, &c.
September 9.—The steamer Sovereign, 119 tons, Captain
Gape, from Moreton Bay the sth instant, with tallow, hides, &c.
September 9.—The Schooner Falcon, 49 tons, Captain
Chape, from Honululu, Sandwich Islands, the 4th July, with
60 tons salt.
September 9.—The steamer William the Fourth, 53 tons,
Captain Wiseman, from the Clarence River the 6th instant,
with wool, &c.
September 9.—The schooner William, 62 tons, Captain
Freeman, from Moreton Bay, the 40th August with tallow, &c.
September 10.—The ship St. George, 605 tons, Captain
Norrie, from Portsmouth the 26‘th May, with a general cargo.
September 10.—The barque Augustus, 140 tons, Captain
Nichols, from Port Albert the 6th instant, with 60 tons bark.
September 10.—The brig Caroline, 113 tons, Captain Loten,
from Hobart Town the 31st August, with potatoes, &c.
September 10. —The brig Calypso, 106 tons, Captain Har-
rold, from Launceston 30th August, with potatoes, &c.
September 10.—The brig Martha, 121 tons, Captain
Walker, from Launceston the 30th August, with potatoes,
wheat, &c.
DEPARTURES.
September 5. —The barque Maria Somes, Captain Baker,
for Calcutta, with sundries.
September B.—The brig Christiana, Captain Saunders, for
Port Phillip, with sundries.
3B3trtf)S.
On the sth instant, at Corunna Cottage, Raymond Terrace,
the lady of T. Digby Miller, Esq., of a son.
On the Bth instant, at the residence of Mr. Clarke, Church-
street, Parramatta, the wife of Mr. John Coutts, of a son.
On the 10th instant, at Granmore Cottage, Balmain, Mrs.
Joseph Hunt, of a son.
JfHarriage.
On the 31st August, at Paterson, by the Rev. J. Smith,
Charles Reynolds, Esq., of Tocal, to Frances Seaton, eldest
daughter of William Dun, Esq.
Beatf).
On the 9th instant, Mr. David Taylor, City Councillor for
St. Phillip Ward; native of Stirling in Scotland, after a long
illness, aged forty years, much regretted by his wife and
family, and a numerous circle of friends.
©olontal SLtterarg journal,
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
THE TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION to this Journal
are, Three Shillings per Quarter, in Town ; Country,
Three Shillings and Sixpence ; 'payable, in every case,
in advance.
Terms for Advertisements: —For one inch, and under,
Three Shillings; and One Shilling for every additional inch,
each insertion. Advertisements will be received until Two
o'clock on Wednesday afternoon ; but cannot be withdrawn
later than Nine o’clock on Wednesday morning. Adver-
tisements must specify on the face of them the number of
times they are to be inserted, or they will be continued till
countermanded, and charged accordingly.
Parties signifying their intention of becoming Subscribers
to the Colonial Literary Journal, are informed that the first
numbers may be still obtained on application to their respec-
tive Agents, and at the Office.
iL CHAAXiEKTGZ:,
TO ENGLAND, IRELAND, SCOTLAND, AND ALL THE WORLD
BESIDE. .
WALKER’S PATENT GROATS.
THIS ARTICLE, if tested, will be found to contain more
nutriment, than any similar article of the kind. E.
Walker is prepared to prove that two thirds of the quantity of
the above, if made in a proper manner, will be equal in nourish-
ment, and of a thicker substance, than the usual quantity
generally recommended by others in the directions for use.
Another desirable property belonging to Walker’s Patent
Groats is, as regards the great safety for export —not liable to
that change which the English manufacture is, by turning
sour on the voyage, avoided by the patent mode of preparation,
and greatly aided by the spontaneous growth of the grain
grown in this Country; while free from the artificial culture
which causes so much moisture in the farina of the English
grain, and scarcely ever eradicated or suffigiently prepared.
Enough already is before the public to satisfy them that
Walker’s Farinaceous Food, (for Children and for Persons with
impared digestion,) ought not to be despised, and which for
the future will be packed in Tin Canisters, in order to preserve
its most agreeable flavour. With the usual white label
sealed and signed Edward Walker—that only being genuine.
Wholesale orders to any extent will be immediately at-
tended to ; any export order exceeding ten gross of either
article, terms, half Cash, and tlie remainder when the goods
are resold.
Manufactory, Old Botany Road.
& ©TTNCHIVSEItfT.
THE undersigned having purchased the stock-in-trade and
good-will of the business of Mr. Thomas Clarke, (for-
merly Evans), Bookseller and Stationer, George-street, re-
spectfully begs to apprize his friends, and the public of
Australia, that he has just opened several cases shipped by the
first houses in London, consisting of Books and Stationery of
the best description, which, in connexion with the present
extensive and well selected stock, induces him to hope he may
receive the same patronage which was for so many years
enjoyed by his predecessors, and begs to assure the patrons of
this, the oldest establishment in Sydney, that it shall ever be
his study, by the most strict attention to their commands, to
receive a continuance of the same.
WILLIAM FORD.
554, George-street,
Opposite the Bank of Australasia.
NOTICE.
MR. WILLIAM FORD having purchased of us the whole
of the Stock-in-trade and good-will of the business of
Mr. Thomas Clarke, (formerly Evans), bookseller and stationer,
554, George-street, we hereby recommend him to the favoura-
ble notice of the public.
Signed W. C. BOTTS, } Trustees of the
G. R. GRIFFITHS, > Estate of Thomas
H. FERRIS, } Clarke.
TO IST,
A HOUSE, situate in King-street East, containing four
. good rooms on the ground floor, one large room and two
bed-rooms on the first floor; kitchen and large cellar under
ground floor; with good dry stores, yard, and other conve-
niences.
This house is situated in a central part of the street, and
calculated for carrying on an extensive business. Rent and
other particulars may be known on application at 133, King-
street ; or at Mr. Brown’s, grocer, King-street.
Agents for this Journal.
Sydney, Mr. W. Jones, Circulating Library, Brickfield-hill.
Parramatta Mr. Hugh Taylor.
Windsor Mr. Walker.
Bathurst Mr. Tress.
West Maitland Mr. Galloway;
Camden, Camphelltoivn, Penrith, and
Liverpool Mr. C. Lester.
Gunning Mr. Hawthorne.
