

COLONIAL LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
“ NON TUA TE MOVEANT, SED PUBLICA VOTA.”
Vol. 11. No. 28.]
SYDNEY, THURSDAY, JANUARY 2, 1845.
[Price 4d.
THE WHEEL OF TIME;
ITS ONWARD MOTION.
The actual departure of the old year,—another drop
from the stream of time returned to the ocean of
eternity,—and the birth of the present year,—a pearl
but newly formed, a virgin coin fresh from the mint
—will naturally occasion thoughts and feelings of a
more than ordinary sensibility to all whose hearts are
not entirely case-hardened by stolid apathy or sensual
indifference ; for, though there is nothing in nature
itself especially to mark one moment as an end, or
another as a beginning, yet, in consequence of the
divisions of time which we must necessarily adopt, we
feel as if a kind of change in our position had occurred,
as if a curtain were, at that peculiar period, in some
degree dropped upon the past, and another raised
from the future. A treasure (and what is more so
than time ?) which we called and used as our own,
seems to have glided from our grasp ; and then —if
ever —are we most forcibly reminded of the sure
onward progress of time, and, alas ! as it regards
ourselves individually, of its uncertain duration.
It is common to hear the observation, that time
flies faster than ever; but few persons probably are
aware, that as respects their own sensations, this is,
generally speaking, sure to be the case. The year is,
in reality, felt to be shorter by the man than by the
boy, and by the old than by those of middle age ;
for we judge of almost everything by comparison.
Thus, long and short are words of relative meaning
merely, and may to different individuals, as they
adopt different standards, convey very different ideas.
All our notions of time, which is like the flowing of
an endless flood, must of necessity be relative ; and
the standard which each one naturally assumes is his
own past life. To the child of ten years, one year is
one-tenth portion of his whole existence, and appears
a considerable space; to the youth of twenty, one
year is but one-twentieth of his life, and therefore
seems diminished to one-half; and to the aged man
of fourscore, one year is only one-eightieth part, and
the impression it makes upon the mind is propor-
tionably lessened. Similarly every one must have
felt that the first day or week of a journey, or illness,
seems much longer than succeeding equal intervals.
It is because we unconsciously adopt these, as, for
the first time, a standard of computation. The first
day of trouble is measured only by the weariness and
wme it brings upon us ; it is as yet the whole duration
of our sorrow: whena second day has passed, that
day is but the half; it has therefore seemed to glide
away more rapidly. And hence the wheel of human
life is set, as it were, in motion on a declivity : turn-
ing with comparative slowness at first, at every revo-
lution it runs with accelerated velocity, till it has
accomplished fully its downward course ; its latest is
its most rapid motion.
But time is not merely a flood of increasing rapidity ;
it sweeps off, in its current, many ancient landmarks.
No one who reads these lines is this day in the same
condition in which he was at the commencement of
the past year. Some tongue that then welcomed him
is mute ; some hand that then clasped his in the
warmth of friendship is motionless in the grave. Per-
haps the loss of substance has ccme upon him ; some
cherished possession has been wrested from his grasp ;
and as he is an» older, so he is also a sadder man.
Some, again, we trust, are beginning this year more
prosperously than they began the last; the flow of
time, as of the Nile, has brought with it fertility and
increase ; their comforts are more numerous, their
wealth is more abundant, their hopes more extensive.
But be this as it may, a change of some kind ha*
passed on all—on some for good, on others for ill :
nothing has been stationary.
The never-ending vicissitudes of temporal affairs
are still more strikingly evinced in the changes which
all must experience in the transition from youth to
manhood ; and it cannot but he observed what dif-
ferent emotions prevail in the mind, through different
periods of human life. In our early hours, when
health is high, and the heart warm, hope is the feeling
that takes the lead ; and who, that calls to mind the
events of his youth, can fail to remember his train of
lively and sanguine opinions ? The boy views every
thing through the magic telescope of an eager fancy.
Present scenes of almost any description appear of
very inferior value in his eyes. He longs for the
future: every day seems to him to go on tardy
pinions; keeping him from he knows not what, but
still from something which strongly impresses hi*
mind with imaginary beauties, and which he is sure
is to make him happier at some approaching period.
In fact, he lives and breathes in an atmosphere of
his own, airidst the pictures of an excited expec-
tation.
As time advances, the spirit of the dream is changed ;
manhood begins to find out what the world is really
made of. When we come to mingle, as interested
actors, in its schemes and tumults, its windings and
turnings ; when we come to perceive its selfishness
and its rigour; to mix up in the every-day exertions
of its dull routine ; and to suffer the various disap-
pointments of its fickle favours, —we then conclude


that hope and reality are two different things; and
that like the clouds about the evening sun, though at
first they are brightly coloured, yet that they are but
clouds after all, and that when the light is gone, the
tempest often remains. Then it is that another feel-
ing arises in the mind : we fly from hope to memory.
We have had happy days, and we love to look back
upon them. There was a time when the world wore
not to us its present dull appearance; there was a
time when we thought its pleasures satisfactory, and
their duration unfading : and though we now know
our mistake, yet it is a source of satisfaction now and
then to turn our eyes back upon the land of our
youth— to linger awhile among the visions which then
delighted us, and which, except by the eye of recol-
lection, we can never behold again.
The most casual observer must notice the striking
contrasts in the scenes of nature afforded by the
changing seasons ; and nature, in her revolutions, is
but a model of the existence of man —of the strange
realities of a chequered life ; for we too have our
summer of mirth and pleasure, and our winter of
gloom and sorrow. How often, as our tastes and in-
clinations, or circumstances, alter, and we cannot
relish them, do we say, “ Is this the spot that gave
us such pleasure ? are these all the remains of our
former entertainment ?” or when adversity visits us,
and we cannot command; or when fate intervenes,
and breaks up our societies, —how often do men sit
and moralise upon their past pleasures, and ask,
“ What and whence were they ?” whither are they
fled ? where is that shelter I had hoped always to
have found ? I see it not now. Where is that flow
of mirth, that perpetual succession of amusements,
that we vainly thought would run on for ever ? Past
and gone! And where are the beloved companions
of our childhood, our youth, and our manhood ? They
are gone, too ! like the birds in a northern winter,
their voices are heard no more. Some, like them,
are pining in want; some are chilled with sorrow ; and
many are laid in the silent tomb!”
This parallel may be, and no doubt is, drawn by
many persons with perfect truth in the lapse of years.
Let it teach us to value the world only at what it is
worth, and to remember that our existence and our
hope is not like it, mortal, temporal, but immortal,
and eternal.
Young persons are inclined sometimes to regard
their elder friends with a degree of pity, as those
whose span is fast contracting its length, and who
must, at all events, precede them in their passage to
the grave. But why this pity ? The truth is, the
old man has had advantages which youth may never
obtain. He has enjoyed life, such as it is; he has
hal all its comforts, such as they are ; he possesses
all the benefits of experience to guide his footsteps,
and confirm his principles, in comparative safety;—
whereas the young man is, as far as any certainty is
concerned, but as a flower of the field. The winter
of age, or the end of another year, may never arrive
to him. Parents follow children to their graves as
often almost as the child does his father. Indeed, the
very outward advantages of youth increase his danger.
That warmth of blood, on which he prides himself,
increases diseases of various kinds; that spirit and
ardour, of which he makes his boast, lead him into a
thousand perils that the prudence and quiet of age
totally avoid ; that gaiety and mirth, inasmuch as they
tend often to riotous and hurtful dissipation, bring
him into scenes which tend also ultimately to shorten
life and destroy the soul.
Let the young man, then, take to himself the
metaphor of the patriarch. He has seen a dower in
summer, blooming and fresh, and casting around its
delighting fragrance; that flower is cut down—often
for its very beauty—and it lies before night broken
and neglected in its native dust.
We do not wish to be considered as going beyond
our task when we remark, that it may be very useful
to look back upon the departed year, and to reckon
i up, as well as we can, both the blessings and the
trials, the gains and the losses, we have experienced
in the course of it. Just as the merchant or the
tradesman balances his aceompt books at the close
of the year, and computes his gain or loss, and
endeavours to win experience by the vicissitudes
through which he has passed, so should every one
in his individual situation, whether old or young, rich
or poor, high in station, or low in station, — so should
each of us constitute a strict scrutiny as to what he
i has gained or lost, that he may accurately know his
{ real condition.
I The examination of past events has its value, as it
| acts upon the future. The merchant, to recur to the
similitude just used, inspects his books, not for the
sake of merely knowing whether their accompts are
in his favour or against him, but in order that he
may be more circumspect and diligent in his future
conduct. Does he find that in one particular braneh
he has been through the past year eminently suc-
cessful ? He will during the present year turn more
than ever his attention to it. Does he discover that
in anything he has been venturesome to his own in-
jury? He will be careful to abstain hereafter from
such a rash speculation. The experience of the past
inspires him with wisdom for the future: in the old
year he has learned some important lessons which he
will practise in the new. And thus should we connect
the past with the present, and the lessons we have
been taught by experience will not be forgotten.
Especially should we learn from the lapse of years
one great lesson, namely, the imperative necessity of
redeeming the past, of more carefully conducting the
present, and, if possible, of anticipating the future.
If the wheel of time turns so very swiftly, if no hand
can stop it for a moment, and no wisdom cause one
iota of its revolving course to re-appear, how jealous
should we be to improve it. But this will form a
subject for further consideration in our next.
GENEALOGY OF THE QUEEN.
[From Chambers' Journal.']
The following tables exhibit the genealogy of Queen Victoria,
through the Anglo-Saxon, the Scottish, and the Norman lines,
with occasional reference in the notes to her descent from the
ancient independent princes of Wales. The lineal descent is
represented in columns in regular order; the indirect successions
are put within parentheses, or are exhibited in the form of
notes. The dates indicate the year of accession, unless when
stated otherwise ; and where no date is given, the individual
so undistinguished is to be understood as never having occu-
pied the throne.
1. ANGLO-SAXON DESCENT OF HER MAJESTY.
800. Egbert, founder of the Anglo-Saxon monarchy. (1.)
336. Ethelwulf. (His four sons in succession, 806 Ethel-
bald, 860 Ethelbert, 866 Ethelred, and)
871. Alfred the Great. 4 , . 4 *
901. Edward the Elder. (925 his eldest son, Athelstane.)
94-1. Edmund I. (916 his brother Edred, 955 Edmunds
son, Edwy.)


959. (975 his son Edward, the Martyr.)
978. Ethelred 11. (The Danish line, 1013 Sweyn, 1014
Canute.)
1016. Edmund 11., surnamed Ironside. (2.)
Edward, designated the Outlaw.
Margaret married Malcolm 111., King of Scotland. (3.)
(1.) Egbert, King of Wessex, or of the West Saxons, by the
extinction or suppression of the other dynasties of the Hep-
tarchy, became the sole representative of the original Saxon
invaders of Britain. The steps connecting him with Cerdic,
who founded the Wessex line, A. d. 519, are in the ascending
scale—Alchmund, Esa, Eoppa, Ingild (brother to King Ina,
the great legislator, who died in 728,) Cenred, Ceadwalla,
Cutha, Cuthwin, Ceawlin, Cynric, Cerdic the founder. Of the
four immediate ancestors of Egbert, no one appears to have
worn the crown of Wessex, the successors of Ina being Etliel-
ard, Cudred, Sigebert, Cenulph, and Brihtric, all more or less
remotely connected with the family, but none in direct descent
from Ina, nor apparently from each other. On the death of
Brihtric in 800, Egbert was unanimously voted by the Witan
to the vacant throne. In 827, Egbert succeeded in establishing
an ascendancy over Saxon England, more absolute and com-
plete than the equivocal supremacy implied in the title of
Bretwalda, or Wielder of the Britons, which he also held,
being the eighth who acquired that dignity.
(2.) Edmund Ironside’s successors on the throne were
Canute in 1016, Harold 1. in 1035, Ilardicanute in 1040, all
of the Danish line ; Edward the Confessor, younger brother of
Ironside in 1042, Harold 11., son of Earl Godwin of Kent, in
1066, and the same year William 1., the Norman Conqueror.
(3.) Margaret, by the death of her brother, Edgar Atheling,
without issue, became the representative of the Saxon dynasty,
and her marriage with Malcolm Canmore ingrafted the Saxon
upon the old Scottish line as founded by Kenneth MacAlpin,
a. D. 843.
For the continuance of this succession, see the u Scottish
descent of her Majesty.”
2. SCOTTISH DESCENT OF HER MAJESTY.
A. D.
843. Kenneth MacAlpin, styled Kenneth 11. (1.)
863, Constantine 11. (882 his brother Aodh or Hugh, and
same year Grig, a northern chief, followed by Eoch,
Kenneth’s grandson by a daughter.)
893. Donald IV. (904 Constantine 111., son of Hugh.)
944. Malcolm T. (953 Indulf, son of Constantine III.)
961. Duff. (965 Culen, son of Indulf, 970 Kenneth 111.,
brother of Duff, 994 Constantine IV., son of Culen.)
994. Kenneth IV., styled the Grim. (1004 Malcolm, a
Moray chief, usually overlooked or confounded with
his successor, Malcolm II.)
2029. Malcolm 11., whose daughter,
Betlioc, married Crinan, styled Abbot of Dunkeld,
perhaps a Pictish chief.
1033. Duncan. (1040 Macbeth, Thane of Moray.)
1057. Malcolm 111., surnamed Canmore. (2.)
1124. David I. (3.)
Henry, Crown Prince of Scotland.
David, Earl of Huntingdon. (4.)
Isabella married Bruce of Annandale.
Robert Bruce claimant with Baliol.
Robert Bruce Earl of Carrick by marriage.
1306. Robert 1., the Conqueror at Bannockburn. (1329 his
son David II.)
Marjory married Walter the High Steward.
1370. Robert 11., the first of the Stuart line.
1390. Robert 111.
1406. James I.
1437. James 11.
1460. James 111.
1488. James IV., married Margaret of England. (5.)
1513. James V.
1542. Mary, usually styled Queen of Scots.
1567. James VI. of Scotland and I. of England.
For the subsequent succession, see the “ Norman Descent
of her Majesty.”
(1.) Kenneth MacAlpin, originally king of the Dalriadic
Scots, and generally admitted to be the representative by the
then acknowledged rule of inheritance of a long line of Scottish
monarchs, succeeding, as is commonly supposed by conquest,
to the Pictish throne, united in 843 the whole of North Britain
under his sway. He was succeeded in 859 —according to the
established system of tanistry , which preferred a full grown
brother or other near relative to a son of immature years, by
his brother Donald 111.
(2.) Malcolm 111., by his marriage with Margaret sister
and heiress of Edgar Atheling, united the Saxon and Scottish
lines. His immediate successors were his brother Donald
Bane in 1093, displaced the same 3 ear by Malcolm’s son
Duncan, at whose death in 1095 Donald Bane was restored —
the last instance in which the principle of tanistry was exercised
in the Scottish line; then Malcolm’s three sons in regular
sequence, Edgar in 1097, Alexander I. in 1107, and David f.
as above.
(3.) The occupants of the throne after David I. were his
grandsons, sons of Prince Henry ; Malcolm IV., surnamed
the Maiden, in 1153, and William the Lion in 1165, whose
line was transmitted in direct succession through Alexander
11. in 1214; Alexander 111. in 1249; Margaret married to
Eric, king of Norway; and finally in 1286 Margaret, styled
the Maiden of Norway, upon whose death in 1290 commenced
those troubles which led eventually to the elevation of Robert
Bruce to the throne.
(4.) David, Earl of Huntingdon, third son of Prince Henry,
had thvee daughters, of whom Margaret, the eldest, married
Alan, Lord of Galloway ; their only child who left issue was a
daughter, Dervorgille, whose son was John Baliol, the success-
ful competitor with Robert Bruce and others for the crown, to
which he was raised in 1292. His son, King Edward Baliol,
dying without issue in 1363, and the title of Marjory, Edward’s
sister, who had married John Comyn, Lord of Badenoch, being
disregarded, perhaps in consequence of the unpopularity into
which the Baliol family had sunk by their pusillanimity and
sacrifice of the independence of their country, the right to the
throne passed to the heirs of Isabella, the Earl of Hutingdon’s
second daughter, who had married Robert Bruce, Lord of
Annandale, and was by him mother of that Robert Bruce who
claimed along with John Baliol, and great-grandmother of the
hero of Bannockburn.
It may be interesting here to trace the representation of
Marjory Baliol till its final disappearance fvo.n the records of
the northern kingdom. By her husband, John Comyn, com-
monly styled the Black Comyn, she had a son John, designated
the Red Comyn, who fell at Dumfries by the hands of Bruce
and Kirkpatrick in 1305-6, leaving a son John, who died with-
out issue, and two daughters. Of Elizabeth, the younger
daughter, who married Richard Talbot of Goderich Castle,
Dugdale brings down the descent to 1673. Joanne, the elder,
in whom the rights of the family became vested after the
death of her brother, by her husband, David of Strathbogie,
eleventh Earl of Athole, had a son David, twelfth earl, whose
son David, the thirteenth and last earl of the Strathbogie line,
left two daughters, Elizabeth and Philippa, married first to
Thomas and Ralph Percy, sons of their guardian, Henry Lord
Percy, and next to Sir John Scrope, and Sir John Walsham,
of the English peerage and baronage, where the subsequent
succession of the united Baliol and Comyn line is to be sought. *
(5.) The marriage of James IV. with Margaret of England,
eldest daughter of Henry VII., led, as is well-known, after-
several successions, to the union of two crowns in the person
of their great-grandson James VI. of Scotland.
3. NORMAN DESCENT OF HER MAJESTY.
A. D.
1066. William L, styled the Conqueror. (1087 his second
son William 11., surnamed Rufus.)
1100. Henry I. (1135 his nephew Stephen.) (1.) Matilda
married Geoffrey of Angou.
1154. Henry 11. the first of the Plantagenets. (1189
Richard 1., his eldest surviving son.) (2.)
1199. John.
1216. Henry 111.
1272. Edward I.
1307. Edward 11.
1327. EDWARD 111. (1377 his grandson Richard II.) (3.)
Lionel, Duke of Clarence, as representing the elder
line.
Philippa married Edmund Mortimer, Eavl of March.
See note (6)
Roger Mortimer, Earl of March.
Ann Mortimer married Richard, Earl of Cambridge.
Richard, Duke of York.
1461. Edward IV., the first of the House of York. (4.)
Elizabeth married Henry VII.
EDWARD 111. His younger line was represented by
John of Gaunt, Duke of Lancaster. (5.)
John Beaufort, Duke of Somerset.
John Beaufort, Duke of Somerset.
Margaret married Edmund Tudor, Earl of Richmond.
1485. Henry VII., the first of the Tudors, married Elizabeth
of York. (6.)
Margaret married James IV. of Scotland,
James V. of Scotland.
Mary, Queen of Scots,


1603. James VI. of Scotland and I. of England, first of the
Stuarts on the English throne. (7.)
Elizabeth married Frederick, Elector Palatine.
Sophia married Ernest, Elector of Hanover.
1714. George 1., the first of the Hanoverian line.
1727. George 11.
Frederick, Prince of Wales.
1760. George 111. (His sons, 1820 George IV., and 1830
William IV.)
Edward, Duke of Kent, fourth son of George 111.
1837. Victoria, her present Majesty.
(1.) Henry like his brother Rufus, intercepted the crown, to
the prejudice of the rights of their brother Robert, Duke of
Normandy, eldest son of the Conqueror. The failure, how- |
ever, of Robert’s family by the death of his only son, William
Fitz-Robert, in 1128, relieved the Anglo-Norman line of any
solicitude as to claims founded upon primogeniture. Shortly
after his accession, Henry married Matilda, daughter of
Malcolm 111. of Scotland, by Margaret, heiress of Edgar
Atheling—a polite step towards the union of the Norman with
the Saxon blood, which contributed not a little to the accep-
tability of his somewhat dubious title with both classes of his
subjects. His successor, Stephen of Blois, the last of the
Norman line, seized the throne, to the exclusion of the
Empress Matilda, Henry’s only child. But the principle of
direct descent, according to the rules of primogeniture, was
acknowledged even in this reign, and successfully asserted in
the next in the person of Matilda’s son, Henry 11.
(2.) Upon the death of Richard I. without issue, the crown
belonged of right to his nephews Arthur of Brittany, as being
the son of his next brother, Geoffrey. This young prince
falling into the power of his uncle John in 1202, was barba-
rously put to death, it is said, by the king’s own hand ; and his
sister Eleanor, who inherited his claims, was kept in confine-
ment, till her death in 1241 relieved John’s family of all
anxiety as to the legitimacy of their title.
(3.) Upon the deposition of Richard 11., son of Edward the
Black Prince, in 1399, the crown was assumed by his cousin,
Henry IV., son of John of Gaunt, Duke of Lancester, to the
exclusion of the representatives of Lionel, Duke of Clarence,
the elder brother of John of Gaunt. The succession was
transmitted direct in the Lancastrian line to Henry V. in
1413, and in 1422 to Henry VL, upon whose death in 1461,
and the extinction of the elder Lancastrian line by the cruel
murder of his only son, Prince Edward, the crown went to
Edward IV. as above.
(4.) Edmund of Langley, Duke of York, and younger brother
of John of Gaunt, had two sons—Edward, his successor in the
title of York, who fell at Agincourt in 1415, without leaving
issue; and Richard, usually styled of Conigsberg, Earl of
Cambridge, who was executed for treason in 1415, shortly
before the death of his brother Edward. Richard married
Ann Mortimer, heiress (after the death of her two brothers,
Edmund and Roger, and their sister, Eleanor) to the family
of March, and had by her a son, also named Richard, who, by
the reversal of the attainder consequent upon his father’s
treason, was permitted to assume the family title of Duke of
York. In him, as representing, through his mother Ann, the
line of Lionel of Clarence, centred the representation of the
now united branches of Clarence and York, which, upon his
death in 1460, became vested in his son, afterwards Edward
IV. Edward IV. was followed upon the throne in 1483 by
his son Edward V., and the same year by his brother Richard
111., the last of the House of York, as well as of the Planta-
genet line, whose defeat and death at Bosworth opened the
succession in 1485 to Henry VII.
(5.) John of Gaunt, founder of the Lancastrian line, had,
by Catherine Swynford, a younger family, who, having been
born before marriage, were subsequently legitimated by act of
of parliament, in the reign of Richard 11., and began to come
into notice as a branch of this house after the extinction of
the elder line in 1461. The eldest son of thisfamily was John
Beaufort, Duke of Somerset, who perished at St. Albans in
1455. His son of the same name, beheaded in 1464, left an
only child, Margaret, who married Edmund Tudor, a Welsh
chief, who bore the title of the Eail of Richmond. From this
marriage sprung a son, afterwards Henry VII.
(6.) It is remarked by Sir James Mackintosh, in his “ History
of England,” vol. ii., p. 65, that “in Henry VII., son of
Edmund Tudor, and grandson of Owen Tudor, Welsh chief-
tains, a race of native (British) princes was restored to the
throne after a lapse of nearly a thousand years.” But even
although the Tudors could claim descent from the ancient
sovereigns of Wales —a fact which seems far from being clearly
established—the restoration of the Welsh race ought to be
considered as having taken place in the person of Edward IV.,
whose grandmother, Ann Mortimer, wife of Richard, Earl of
Cambridge see note (4) as above-—was grandaughter of
Edmund Mortimer, Earl of March, the direct representative,
through a female, of Llewellyn, the last independent prince of
Wales. Again, Edmund’s marriage with Philippa, heiress of
Lionel of Clarence, brought his family, as is shown above, into
the direct line of the succession to the throne, in the person of
their son Roger Mortimer, the father of Ann. The auspicious
union of Henry VII. with Elizabeth of York, heiress of
Edward IV., for ever extinguished the disputes of the houses
of York and Lancaster; and the marriage of their eldest
daughter Margaret with James IV. of Scotland, contributed
still farther to the consolidation of the throne, and the hap-
piness and peace of these realms, by opening the succession in
the progress of events to their descendant James VI. of Scot-
land. Henry’s successor was his son Henry VIII. in 1509,
who was followed by his three children, Edward VI. in 1547,
Mary I. in 1553, and Elizabeth, the last of the Tudors, in
1558, upon whose death the crown passed in 1603 to the Scot-
tish line of the Stuarts See next note (7).
(7.) James I. of England and VI. of Scotland, in whom
the crowns were united, conveyed to his descendants the un-
disputed representation of the different dynasties which had
wielded the sceptre in both kingdoms ; and of the ancient line
of Welsh princes, transmitted from Cadwalader, the last king
of the Britons, who died at Rome about the end of the seventh
century. James’ successor was his son Charles I. in 1625, who
was followed in 1649 by the Commonwealth and Protectorates,
then by his two sons, Charles 11. in 1660, and James 11. in
1685. The abdication of James brought the crown in 1689 to
his son-in-law William 111., of the House of Orange, and his
daughter Mary 11. jointly; and after them in 1702 to his
younger daughter Anne, the last of the Stuarts who occupied
the throne. Upon the demise of Anne in 1714, the succession
devolved, by parliamentary arrangement, upon the House of
Hanover, in the person of George L, great-grandson of James
1., through Elizabeth and Sophia as above, whose descendants
continue to fill the throne. It is a coincidence deserving of
notice, that, to this comparatively remote degree of kin, these
kingdoms have been indebted, on three occasions, to important
changes of the reigning dynasty; first in Robert I. (Bruce),
as representing and claiming through his great-grandmother
Isabella; second, in James VI., as being great-grandson of
Margaret of England; and third, in George L, as great-
grandson of James Vl.—the immediate direct line in none of
these cases attaining the possession of the throne.
In concluding this review of the genealogy of our Most
Gracious Queen, it may not be improper to mention, that the
male representation of the Stuarts, after the expatriated James
11., who died in 1701, went to his son James, usually styled the
elder Pretender, who died in 1765, and was succeeded in his
claims by his sons, Charles Edward, the younger Pretender,
who died in 1788, and Henry Benedict, known as Cardinal
York, the last male of the royal house, who died at Rome
in ISO 7.
It is worthy of notice, as a curious fact suggested by the
consideration of these tables and illustrative notes, that our
Scottish line of princes presents a series of eleven monarchsin
direct lineal descent, from father to son, without collateral
interruption of the succession, commencing with Robert 11.
and ending with Charles 11., a circumstance of which it is
tolerably safe to affirm, that it is unprecedented in the history
of any other nation, ancient or modern, of which we possess
anything like authentic records.
NATURAL AND ACQUIRED GENIUS.
[For the Colonial Literary Journal.]
The question, Is there in the human mind an in-
herent aptitude for one pursuit more than another? is
one, that has been, and still continues to be, fre-
quently asked. Metaphysicians, as usual, entertain
the most conflicting opinions on this point; but the
decision of mankind in general, which in such cases
should be most regarded, has answered it in the affir-
mative ; although by their practice, they seem to
favour the idea which Dr. Johnson entertained, that
the mind was equally powerful in what direction
soever it was employed, a principle, by the way,
which he falsified in his life, for he gave up dramatic
composition, after the ill success of his tragedy of
Irene, from a conviction that his talents were not such


as to suit him for that department of literature.
I. D’lsraeli, in his “ Curiosities of Literature,” fanci-
fully, but truly observes, “At present our human bul-
lion is sent to be melted down in a university, to
come out, as if thrown into a burning mould, a bright
physician, a bright divine, or a bright lawyer.” To
parents, guardians and instructors of youth, the ques-
tion is one ol the greatest importance ; experience,
I think, has fully shown that nature has endowed
individuals with talents for particular pursuits, and
were the predispositions of the young but more
studied in educating them, we should not have such
pitiable exhibitions of persons placed in situations
which they were never intended to fill. Nature has
assigned his place to each individual, but it is unde-
niable that some persons seem born with abilities for
any situation, a universality of talent which causes
them to excel in what pursuit of life soever they en-
gage ; and on the other hand, some beings are ushered
into life without as much of intellect as entitles them
to be ranked as human. But even in these extreme
cases, nature may not have so far violated her usual
principles, as we imagine; the most helpless imbecile
may be supposed with truth to fill up some situation
in life, no matter how inferior ; and men gifted with
what we call a universality of genius, may with reason
be supposed to possess some peculiar talent, which
shines more resplendently than the rest. Alcibiades
arid Crichton were men who possessed this versatility
of genius in a most eminent degree ; but, as if nature
intended to condensate in some degree for what we
may call this partiality on her part, we seldom hear
of persons endowed with such varied accomplishments
leaving any lasting memorial of their greatness be-
hind, to ensure immortal glory to their name, except
a perishable monument in the praises of their contem-
poraries. To cultivate the peculiar talent, and to de-
velope the inherent abilities with which youth is
gifted, should be the aim of the successful instructor;
but some children have so much concealment in their
disposition, and in generalyhave so little force of cha-
racter to evince their peculiar bent of mind, that the
most experienced persons are frequently mistaken in
their predication of character. The want of some de-
finite means of determining the predisposition of
minds, is severely felt by those who have the deve-
lopement of the characters of children entrusted to
their charge ; the best way seems to be to leave
the choice of a profession in the hands of }outh
themselves, but this is not always the safest method,
for youth very often mistake transient fancies for a
fixed and permanent inclination. The science of
Phrenology, if we allow it to be true, seems to afford
the only means of judging of a youth’s natural endow-
ments and capabilities ; and were it only to gain this
single object, is highly worthy of study. Were the
saying of Dr. Johnson, which we before quoted, true,
of course there would be no difficulty in the case, and
the practice of educating men for a profession, instead
of allowing them to follow the natural bent of their
genius, would be perfectly justifiable. But how many
graceless parsons have figured in the pulpit, who
were fit for anything but the Church, whom the red
coat or the lawyer’s wig would have become better
than the gown ? How many have been educated for
the profession of the law, who never had the slightest
pretensions to that logical acumen, that subtle per-
ception, and that consummate tact, —I had almost
added, that flexibility of conscience, which must ne-
cessarily characterise the man who would rise to dis-
tinction at the bar. Men who would have been much
more profitably employed, to themselves, and to so-
ciety at large, had they been placed where honest
dame Nature intended they should be, measuring
tape or serving groceries over a counter, or presiding
at the bar of a tavern instead of the bar of a court of
justice. And how many spicy and essenced young
men have had commissions in the army thrown away
upon them ? who have strutted in uniform at the head
of a regiment, and marched into battle with their
little hearts palpitating, and as white with fear as their
coward cheeks ; who would have given worlds to be
in any other situation, were it even appearing in so-
ciety with a coat out of the fashion; men, who had
they been placed in their proper place, would have
been parading some fashionable promenade as exqui-
sites of the first water —arrayed in the pink of fashion,
with an eyeglass in their fist instead of a sword, and
the perfume of the otto of roses tickling their olfac-
tory nerves, instead of the nauseous stench of villainous
gunpowder; describing a right angle with their body,
and placing their hand where their heart should be, to
every female of their acquaintance they chanced to
meet!
We perpetually meet with persons out of their
proper sphere, and there is an awkward consciousness
about them that this is the case —placed like a man
in a suit of clothes which do not fit him. Ido not
mean to say that custom and practice will not do a
great deal towards lessening the inaptitude of a man to
a situation which does not agree with his capabilities ;
but what would not such custom and practice, applied
in the proper direction achieve ? I hold too, that na-
tural genius may be rendered much more illustrious
by cultivation and application, but as well may we
say that the polish of a burnished diamond is superior
to the lustre of the gem itself, which it is only the
means of displaying in its fullest splendour, as to say
that the genius which is acquired is supeiior to that
w r hich is natural. I shall conclude with the following
curious anecdote, to the point, recorded in the “ Cu-
riosities of Literature.”
“ Dante held the opinion that education was more-
powerful than nature, and one day whilst arguing on
the question with Cecco D’Ascoli, who was a strenuous
assertor of a different notion, he remarked that he had
so far overcome the natural indocility of his cat, as to
teach it to stand upon its hind legs and hold a candle
in its paw while he read. His opponent desired to
witness the proof, ana on a day appointed came, not
unprepared for the occasion. Upon entering Dante’s
room, there stood bis pupil, puss, with the candle in
her paw, as grave and solemn as the beadle of a
parish. The triumph of the poet seemed to be com-
plete, tiil D’Ascoli removed the lid of a small pot he
had brought with him, and allowed some mice which
he had concealed in it to escape on the floor. Imme-
diately the tutor and the candle were disregarded—•.
nature was more potent than art, and puss flew .pn
her natural prey, with all her instinctive propensity.
Dante was nonplussed —D’Ascoli won his 'cause-
and the triumph of Nature over Education was com-
plete.”
ÆNEAS.
Destruction of the Weevil. —A liberal application of
strong lime-water, with a brush, to the floors and walls of the
granary, will effect its destruction ; and a few days afterwards*
the floor must be scoured with soap and hot water, or the
future corn placed upon it will be injured by the dust pf lime.


THE CONQUEST OF NORMANDY;
OR, THE MONKS THREE VISITS.
BY HENRY NEELE.
The result of the fatal victory of Hastings was for a
long time severely felt, and deeply lamented by the
English. The flower of the native nobility perished
in that disastrous battle : of those who survived, the
majority were driven into exile, while a few who
were induced to accept the terms offered by the con-
queror, soon found that their destruction was only
postponed until a more convenient opportunity, and
were very speedily conducted to the dungeon or the
block. The common people, too, experienced their
full share of the tyranny of the two Williams. The
Norman barons, who became lords of the soil, looked
■upon them as their property, and thought themselves
justified in the exercise of any act of oppression or
cruelty towards them. Resistance was vain, com-
plaint was useless, and the once high-minded people
of England, by degrees, sunk into a state of tame and
passive submission.
Nearly half a century had elapsed since the battle
of Hastings was fought, although the wounds of the
nation w r ere as grievously painful as if they had
been inflicted but yesterday, when one general ex-
pression of joy pervaded the whole realm, on receiving
intelligence of the death of William Rufus. This
monarch had succeeded to all the hatred inspired by
his father, without attaining any of that respect
which the military talents of the conqueror extorted
from his bitterest enemies. His profaneness, and open
and avowed contempt for the scriptures and the ordi-
nances of the church, had also alienated the clergy
from him, so that his death was considered both by
the ecclesiastics and the people as a judgment which
he had drawn upon his own head, in the opinion of
the former by his profaneness, and in that of the
latter by his tyranny. The minds of all were now
occupied by the question of who should be his suc-
cessor. The Normans were anxious to place the
crown on the brows of his eldest brother, Robert
Curthose, Duke of Normandy, who, indeed, as far as
priority of birth went, had a better title to it even
than the late king, while the English eagerly turned
their eyes towards the young prince, Henry Beauclerc,
who was born in England, was one of the first
scholars of the age, was accomplished both in mind
and person, and had ever shown more sympathy and
respect for the sufferings of the people, than his father
or either of his brothers.
Prince Henry had followed in the train of his
brother to the chase in the New Forest, but not being
so expert in the sport, or not having so great a taste
for it, he had, with one or tw r o attendants, loiteied
considerably in the rear of the king. He had seen
much in the conduct of his brother, and the disposition
of the people towards him, which led him to fear,
that however submissive the latter might then appear
to be, they could not long patiently endure the yoke
under which they laboured, and would seize the first
favourable opportunity for throwing it off. As he
rode along, his mind thus moodily occupied, some
one grasped his horse’s rein, and a deep, solemn
Voice exclaimed,
“ Hail! Henry, King of England!”
The prince started, and raising his head, beheld an
aged man In an ecclesiastical habit, standing before
him. His cowl had fallen from his head, and his
long white hair streamed in rich profusion down his
shoulders. His face was furrowed deep with wrinkles ;
but even now, at his advanced age, it beamed with a
singular expression of intelligence and majesty. His
bright blue eye appeared to flash fire ; and his lip
was wreathed with a smile, which seemed to betoken
a feeling of imperiousness and triumph.
Henry had grasped his sword, but on seeing the old
man he let it fall again into its scabbard.
“ What meanest thou, bold traitor?” said the prince.
“ How darest thou call me King of England while
William Rufus lives?”
“ He lives now,” replied the monk ; “ but mark
me, Henry Beauclerc,” he added, pointed to the west,
where the sun was rapidly declining, “ere yonder
orb has sunk beneath the horizon, the sun of his life
will have set for ever.”
“ Cease, cease this idle prattle,” said the prince,
endeavouring to extricate his horse’s rein from the
grasp of the monk, but without success.
“ Hail ! Henry Beauclerc,” reiterated the latter ,
“ thou shalt speedily be King of England ; thou shalt
restore the ancient Saxon line to the throne of these
realms ; and with English hearts and hands thou shalt
conquer the country of the Conqueror !”
At that moment a dreadful shriek rang through the
forest; and the monk, seizing Henry’s arm, again
pointed to the west. The sun was on the very verge
of the horizon, and in an instant afterwards sunk
beneath it. The prince turned wonderingly towards
the monk, but the mysterious monitor had dis-
appeared.
“ ’Tis passing strange !” said he to his attendants;
“ know ye aught of this person ?”
“ ’Tis the mad monk of St. John’s,” said a page ;
“ he fought on the side of the Saxons at Hastings, and
was left for dead on the field. Some benevolent
brothersof Waltham, who w r entover the field after the
battle, in the hope that they might be of service to
the wounded, discovered some signs of life, in this
person, and bore him to the abbey. There they suc-
ceeded in healing his w r ound?s; but could never prevail
upon him to reveal his name or rank. From the
richness of his dress and the value of the jewels which
were found upon him, he is supposed to have been a
Saxon lord of distinction. He afterwards became a
brother of the order of St. John at Chester, and has
rendered himself remarkable by his acts of piety and
penitence ; but his misfortunes are supposed to have
disordered his intellect.”
“ His voice sounded prophetically in my ears,”
said the prince, “ and that shriek was strangely
coincident with the setting sun. Heaven shield our
royal brother ! Let us scour the forest in search of
him.”
The monk’s words were proved to be prophetic.
William Rufus was found dead in the forest; and,
within a few hours afterwards, Henry Beauclerc \vas
proclaimed King of England at Winchester. Such
were the extraordinary events which followed the
monk’s first visit to that prince.
Henry’s elevation to the throne, w'as hailed with
the acclamations of the whole nation. A few of his
brother’s partisans endeavoured to advance the in-
terests of the Duke of Normandy, but that prince was
then engaged in the crusade in the Holy Land. He
had left his dukedom a prey to civil dissension, and
during the whole time he had been remarkable for
nothing but slothfulness and indecision. On his
return from the crusade, however, he resolved to


make an effort to win the crown his father had won,
and accordingly landed at Portsmouth with a for-
midable army. The English began to fear a renewal
of the fatal scenes at Hastings. They rallied round
their native-born monarch, and exhibited throughout
the country such a spirit of resistance to the invaders,
that Duke Robert paused in his enterprise before a
blow was struck, and at length determined to leave
his brother in quiet possession of the crown, and to
return to Normandy.
Henry, in the mean time, continued to endear
himself to his people by his vigour, wisdom and jus-
tice. He repressed violence, abolished the prevalent
system of rapine, interposed between the tyrannous
barons and their oppressed vassals, and by his decision
and impartiality acquired the epithet of the “ Lion
of Justice.” He moreover abolished that odious in-
stitution of William the Conqueror, the Curfew ;
granted his subjects a charter, in which he confirmed
to them the privileges which they had enjoyed under
their Saxon kings ; and proclaimed his intention of
marrying Matilda, the daughter of the King of
Scotland, by Margaret, the sister of Edward Atheling,
and lineally descended from the ancient Saxon mo-
narchs of England.
The words of the monk of St. John had made a
deep impression on his mind. One part of his pro-
phecy had been fulfilled—he was king of England ;
but the other part, that he should restore the ancient
S .X)n race to the throne, seemed utterly inconsistent
with the former, for he himself was of Norman
orgin, and it was only by virtue of his father’s con-
quest that he could claim any title to the crown of
Eng’an \ It w as not until the very morning of his
intended nuptials, when he w f as walking in solemn
processioi from his palace at Westminster to the
abbey, for the purpose of celebrating them, that the
truth fla hed upon his mind, that by the act he was
then about to perform, he was accomplishing the
monk’s prediction.
“ ’Tis strange,” he said, to Anslem, Archbishop of
Canterbury, who walked on his right hand, “ but by
this marriage I shall confirm the prophetic intimation
which I received from the monk of St. John, in the
New Forest, on the evening of the death of the Red
King; whom God assoil !” he added, crossing him-
self.
£ ‘lt grieves me, liege,” said the archbishop, “to
find that the ravings of a fanatic and an impostor have
sunk so deep into your grace’s memory. The events
which have come to pass according to his prediction,
were in the ordinary course of things. The Red
King’s violent and heedless course of life promised a
speedy termination to it; and that the wisest and most
accomplished prince in Europe should espouse a
princess, whose virtues and talents so nearly resemble
his own, might surely have happened, although this
cowled dreamer had never existed.”
“ True, true, good Anslem,” said the king ; but he
said it in a tone which induced the archbishop to be-
lieve that his heart did not yield that acquiescence to
his arguments which his lips professed.
“ The monk,” resumed the archbishop, “ also pro-
mised that your grace should, with English hearts
and hands, conquer the country of the Conqueror.
This is an event which is surely scarcely within the
verge of probability, for your grace and the Duke of
Normandy have concluded a peace (which Heaven
keep inviolate !) by which you have guaranteed to
each other the integrity of your respective dominions,
and a free enjoyment of their rights, in both realms
to your subjects.”
The king answered not ; but the project which he
had long formed of subjecting to his sway the heredi-
tary dominions of his father, he could not easily part
with, and the feeling of the English people, who were
eager for an opportunity to retaliate upon Normandy
the injury which William and his followers had
inflicted upon England, would, he knew, second him,
in any attack which he might make upon the terri-
tories of his brother. The acclamations with which
the multitude now greeted him as he passed on to the
abbey, confirmed him in the estimate which he had
made of their willingness to support him, and with
a proud step and an exulting spirit he crossed the
threshold of the sacred edifice.
The Princess Matilda had arrived before him.
She was surrounded by the Scottish barons who had
escorted her from her father’s court, and by several
beautiful females, who were in attendance upon her.
On her progress she had been greeted with the
enthusiastic cheers of the populace. Some invoked
St. Edward’s blessing on her head ; some exclaimed
that the disasters of Hastings had now terminated ;
and others traced a wonderful resemblance in her
features to the effigies of her illustrious ancestor, the
Great Alfred.
The king and princess had both entered the abbey,
amidst the benedictions and applauses of all who
beheld them. The barons and official dignitaries
then followed them to the altar, and the archbishop
was about to perform the ceremony, w'hen a stentorian
voice from a remote part of the church, exclaimed,
“ Forbear ! ” All eyes were turned towards the quarter
whence the interruption proceeded, and an ecclesiastic,
with his features closely shrouded in his cowl, w T as
seen slowdy pacing down the eastern aisle, lie ap-
proached the altar, and removing his c ;wl, the king
and his attendants immediately recognised the monk
of St. John’s.
“ What new vagary is this, reverend father 1” said
the king, forcing a smile, but evidently feeling more
respect for the intrusive monk than he chose to
acknowledge.
“ I say,” cried the monk, “ to yon Norman priest,
forbear ! This is not an occasion on which, when
an English-born prince weds the last heiress of the
ancient and illustrious Saxon race, a Neustrian eccle-
siastic should mar, by his officiousness, the auspicious
ceremony.”
A tumult of applause followed the monk’s address.
The archbishop and the Norman barons frowned, but
the official persons about King Henry, who were, for
the most part, chosen from among the Saxons, and
the Scottish nobles w 7 ho attended the princess, evidently
participated in the pleasurable feelings expressed by
the multitude.
“ And where,” said the archbishop, proudly, “ if
a Norman priest must not perform this august cere-
mony, shall we find one of rank and honour suffi-
cient to entitle him to perform it ?”
A loud and bitter laugh burst from the lips of the
monk, w r hich resounded through the aisles of the
abbey for several seconds. “ Where !” he said,
“ thou puling priest! where shall such a one be found V’
and he thurst his hand towards his side and seemed
to be seeking a weapon ; but, as his eye glanced on
his sacerdotal habit, a cloud gathered on his brow,


and his cheek grew pale as ashes. “ Peace ! peace !
my heart, be still,” he muttered half audibly ; “it
is not yet the time ; but, sir king, I say to thee, let
these Saxon hands tie the indissoluble knot between
thee and yon fair princess, and so perchance, may
one, who has been the cause of all his country’s evils,
make some atonement by becoming the instrument of
their cure and solace.”
The populace renewed their acclamations as the
monk spoke ; the Norman archbishop drew r back from
him abashed, and the king gazed upon him with an
expression of mingled awe and wonder. “ I know
not who or what thou art, mysterious man,” said the
monarch, “ but I have good cause for believing that
thou art in some way more and better than thy garb
proclaimeth. Be it, therefore, as thou desirest; wed
me to this fair princess ; and may Heaven grant that
this union may be as thou sayest —the cure and solace
of this nation’s evils!”
The monk united the hands of the two royal lovers,
and breathed his benediction with a fervour and
enthusiasm which seemed to affect even Archbishop
Anslem and his partisans. The king and queen knelt
before the altar, the populace prostrated themselves
on the ground, and at the conclusion, the organ pealed
forth a solemn strain of blended exultation and
devotion.
“ And now r , O King!” said the monk, “ thou
rememberest what passed at our last interview'?”
“ Most distinctly do I remember,” said the king,
“ and not easily shall I forget it.”
“ Then did I predict,” added the monk, “ that
three things should happen to thee, Henry Beauclerc :
that thou shouldest be King of England ; that thou
shouldest restore the ancient ' axon line to the throne ;
and that with English hearts and hands thou shouldest
conquer the country of the Conqueror. Did not the
first event happen almost at the moment that I said
it, at my first visit? has not the second prediction
been accomplished even now, at my second visit, by
the instrumentality of his hands whose lips uttered it ?
—and when 1 visit thee for the third time, King
Henry, the third event shall come to pass before we
part, and then we shall part for ever.”
The monk uttered these words in a tone of great
energy and solemnity ; then, drawing his robes closely
round him, and grasping his staff, he proceeded slowdy
down the aisle by which he had entered ; the people
made way for him, many falling on their knees and
craving his blessing as he passed ; and in this way,
with downcast head and measured step, he departed
out of the Abbey.
“ What say you now, my Lord Archbishop?" asked
the king, turning towards the astonished and mortified
Anslem.
11 My liege,” said the prelate, “ he is doubtless an
impostor ; albeit when I tried to rebuke him, there
was something in his eye and brow which deprived
me of the power of utterance. It irks me to see your
grace so worked upon by the arts of gramarye, in
which this Saxon monk is, I doubt not, but too well
versed. The faith of your grace and your princely
brother Robert, are too deeply pledged to each other
to allow of the possibility of what this dreamer has
predicted ever coming to pass.”
While the archbishop was speaking, a horn was
heard sounding outside the. walls of the abbey ; and
immediately a horseman, whose dress and accoutre-
ments proclaimed him to be a herald, entered and
rede up toivards the spot on which the king stood.
“ How now !” said Henry, who immediately
recognised the Norman king-at-arms, “ what says
our loving brother'?”
“ I must crave your royal pardon,” said the herald,
“ for what lam commissioned to utter, before 1
venture to use language which will sound but ill in
your grace’s ears.”
“ Speak out,” said the king; thou know est that
thy character and thy office sufficiently protect thee.”
“ Then,” said the herald, throwing dow n his gage,
“ 1 am commanded by King Robert, thy king and
mine, thy father’s eldest son, to hurl his defiance at
thee, and bid thee immediately resign to him the
crown of this fair realm, which thou hast wrongfully
and traitorously usurped. What answer shall 1 bear
to thy loving brother ?”
“ Nay,” said the king, while a bitter smile writhed
his lip. “ first answer me, 1 pray thee, where our
loving brother is sojourning at present ?”
“He is at Tinchebray, in Normandy,” said the
herald, “ where he has collected forces, who wait but
the signal of his uplifted finger to pour themsehes
upon the coasts of this kingdom, for the purpose of
enforcing his just and reasonable demand.”
“Say you so?” answered the king; “then me-
thinks it would be treating King Robert, as thou
callest him, uncivilly, seeing he is so near us, to send
an answer to his so courteous communication by a
messenger. We will ourselves wait upon him in
person at Tinchebray; and if the arguments which
we shall bring w r ith us shall not convince him that
his claim is untenable, we must e’en doff the diadem
from these poor brows of ours, and place it on his
own. What say ye, lords and knights, and ye, not
least in our esteem, our gallant yeomen, —will ye
accompany us to Tinchebray?”
“God save King Henry!” shouted a thousand
voices ; “ God save Queen Matilda ! Death to the
Normans ; victory and vengeance !”
“You have our answer, sir knight,” said the king,
addressing the herald. “Bear it speedily to our
brother, and assure him that we shall lose no time in
confirming your intelligence by our presence. What
ho! there, attend him, and show him such respect
as is befitting his rank and office. What say you
now, my Lord Archbishop?” said the king, again
addressing the primate, and smiling—but the arch-
bishop held his peace, and accompanied the royal
party back to the palace in silence.
It was on the 14th of October, 1107, that the
English army, under the command of the king, sat
| down before the Castle of Tinchebray, then held by
; Robert de Belesme for the Duke of Normandy. This
j was the fortieth anniversary of the battle of Hastings,
j and of the day (his last birth-day) on which King
Harold had lost his kingdom and his life. The sun
had not risen above an hour when the king’s forces
came in sight of the castle, and found that the fortress
was not left to its own resources, but that Duke
Robert had arrived before them with a numerous
army to its relief, which occupied a strong position
in advance of it.
“Seest thou this ?” said a knight in black armour,
riding up to the king, and showing him his shield,
which bore the marks of many a lance and arrow upon
its disk.
“Who art thou, friend,” asked the king, “who
hast so many times intruded thyself upon my notice,
since our embarkation from England ? I would not
willingly disparage thy prowess, although I know


thee not; but I doubt not that there are five hundred
in my army who are as good as thou, and who are as
much entitled to assume these airs of familiarity
with me.”
“ It matters not,” replied the knight; “ but this
shield guarded this arm at Hastings, and neither arm
nor shield has since, until this day, been exhibited
in the field: then I fought against the Normans, and
they conquered England ; now, I fight against them
this day, and by God’s good grace, will assist thee in
conquering Normandy.”
•* Thou seemest a stalwart and vigorous knight,”
said the king, “ and thy appearance but ill accords
with thy assertion, that thou borest arms nearly half
a century ago. However, heaven pardon thee, if
thou utterest untruths, and visit not our cause with
the punishment due to thy falsehoods! There are now
other matters that demand my attention too imperiously
to allow me to listen any longer to thy prating.”
The centre of the Norman army was commanded
by the Duke in person, the right wing by the Earl of
Mortaigne, and the left wing by Robert de Belesme.
Their cavalry was not quite so numerous as that
of the English, but in their infantry they had
greatly the superiority. Robert never appeared to
greater advantage than on that day : and before the
commencement of the engagement, he was seen in
every part of his army animating his soldiers, inciting
them to attack, and reminding them that they must
this day prove themselves worthy of wearing the
laurels which were won at Hastings, or submit to
become the vassals of that people who had then been
so heroically conquered. The Earl of Mortaigne,
and Robert de Belesme also, who w r ere the inveterate
enemies of Henry, had nothing to hope from his cle-
mency in the event of his proving victorious, and
were indefatigable in their efforts to kindle the mar-
tial energies of their followers. The whole army
participated in the spirit of their leaders, and chant-
ing, like their ancestors at Hastings, the song of
Rollo, they rushed furiously on the advanced guard
of the English. The assault was irresistible; the
ranks of the English were broken, and the Norman
assailants, shouting victory, advanced upon that part
of the main body of the English which was com-
manded by King Henry himself. Robert de Belesme
cut his way through the ranks of the enemy, shouting
the name of Henry, and defying him, if he had a
particle of honour and valour, to meet him and give
him battle. This man, who had the reputation of
being an incarnate fiend, excited so much terror by
his presence, that all fled before him, and left the
king almost alone, exposed to the assault of Belesme
and his myrmidons. The monarch, however, at the
head of a small band of friends, defended himself
valiantly, but his strength was evidently failing him,
and his friends were falling one by one at his side,
“Englishmen to the rescue, ho!” he shouted, and
renewed hisefforts with increased vigour. “ Normans,
remember Hastings!” exclaimed De Belesme, and
made another furious assault by w'hich the king was
unhorsed. “ Remember Hastings !” echoed a sten-
torian voice ; “ay, Englishmen, forget it not!” and
immediately the knight in black armour, whom we
have already mentioned, rode up at the head of a
party of about a hundred men, and smiting at De
Belesme with his sword on the helmet, he bore him
from his saddle. “ On, sire,” he said, assisting the
king to remount , “ the Earl of Mortaigne’s division
has been repulsed by the Earl of Mayne; Duke
Robert is contending at fearful odds with the Earl of
Mellent •, and now, could we but drive back the fol-
lowers of De Belesme, the victory and Normandy are
ours. Once more, Englishmen, remember Hastings!”
Thus saying, the unknown knight put spurs to his
steed, couched his lance, and rushed into the thickest
ranks of the enemy. The king and his followers
imitated his example, and the forces of Helias, Earl
of Mayne, who had driven Mortaigne from the field,
speedily joining them, they carried all before them.
The slaughter was immense. The English arrows
darkened the air, and every English lance was red to
the hilt with blood. The black knight in particular,
traversed the field like the angel of destruction :
wherever he appeared the enemy sunk beneath his
blow, or fled before him. “Remember Hastings!”
he shouted at every step his good steed took ; and this
cry, which had been originally set up by the Norman
leaders, to remind their followers of their ancient
triumph, now eagerly spread from rank to rank in the
English army, and seemed to give Herculean force
to their arms, as they hurled their javelins or twanged
their bows against the enemy. When a part of their
forces seemed wavering and dismayed, the shout was
“ Remember Hastings !” and they rushed on again
as though invigorated with wine ; —when the English
w r arrior felt the death-wound in his heart, he spent
his remaining breath in saying, “ Remember Hast-
ings !” to his comrades, and died with a smile upon
his lip ; —when the Norman captive sued for quarter,
the answer w r as, “ Remember Hastings!” and his head
rolled in the dust!
In the mean time, the Duke of Normapdy and his
forces were resisting with unequal strength, but un-
diminished gallantry,the attack of the Earl of Mellent.
The two divisions of his army were broken and dis-
persed, and the main body of the English w r as advanc-
ing against him under the conduct of King Henry.
He, nevertheless, fought on with incredible valour,
and had even cut himself a passage through the ranks
of his assailants, and, being well mounted, was
leaving his pursuers behind him, when he found
himself surrounded by the black knight and a select
band of warriors, who had kept close to him during
the whole engagement.
" Yield thee, Duke of Normandy !” said the knight;
“ yield thee—or thy days are numbered !”
“ I yield to no one,” said the Duke, “ merely
because he bids me do so. I yield to no one but to
him whose right hand can subdue me !”
Say you so said the knight; “ then yield to
me,” and directing his sword furiously at the breast
of his opponent, the latter reeled from the saddle,
and the shouts of the spectators, which were speedily
re-echoed over the whole held, proclaimed that the
Duke of Normandy was taken prisoner.
The clamour of the battle instantly ceased. The
Normans threw down their arms—some fled, some
were butchered upon the spot, and four hundred
knights and ten thousand soldiers were taken prisoners.
“ Brother,” said King Henry, approaching the
place where the Duke stood in the custody of hiss
captors ; “ you have put us to some cost and trouble
in coming over here to answer your courteous mes-
sage ; nevertheless, it were ungrateful in us, seeing
the result, to grudge either. Since, how’ever, it may
not be quite so convenient in future to answ'er your
messages, we have resolved to place you nearer our


royal person ; Cardiff Castle is not so troublesome a
distance from our palace as Tinchebray.
“I am your prisoner, Henry,” said the duke,
moodily, “ and must submit to the will of Heaven.
Do with me as you please : the curse which our father
provoked, Avhen he invaded a peaceful kingdom, is
upon me.”
“ But where is the black knight ?” asked the king;
“ our gallant deliverer, to whom the glorious success
of this day is so mainly attributable ?”
11 He stands yonder,” said a page, pointing to the
left of the king, “and is, I fear, grievously hurt, for
he pants for breath, and seems scarcely able to support
his tottering weight.”
“ Approach, valiant sir,” said the king ; “ I trust
that you have sustained no hurt which a skilful leech
will not know how to treat?”
“ I am not hurt,” said the knight, “ but my days
are numbered. I have lived to see this day ; it is
enough, and now would I depart in peaee.”
The knight’s voice seemed strangely altered : dur-
ing the battle its stentorian tones had jeen heard all
over the field, but it was now feeble and tremulous.
“ Unbar his visor,” said the king ; “ surely I have
heard that voice before.”
The knight’s visor ivas unbarred, and revealed to
the wondering eyes of the king and his attendants the
features of the monk of St. John.
“ Did not I tell thee, O king! that at my third
visit—the third event which I had prophesied, the
conquest of Normandy, should come to pass before
we parted ?”
“True, holy father,” said the king ; “'and thou
hast proved thyself the apostle of truth.”
“ I said, too,” added the monk, and his features)
changed, and his voice grew more tremulous than I
ever, as he spake, “ that when we did part, we should i
part for ever. Yet I have something for thy ear, and
for the ears of the knights and barons who surround j
thee, which I would not willingly leave the world
without disclosing.”
“ Support him,” said the king ; “ he is falling!”
and two pages hastened to the assistance of the monk,
whose strength was gradually failing him.
“ Speak out, old man!” said the king ; “ who and
what art thou ?”
“ This,” said the monk, “ is the eightieth anni-
versary of my birth, and the fortieth of my perilous
fall, and the fall of my country ; but blessed be
heaven ! my country has retrieved that fall; and I, at
last, can die in peace.”
“Reveal thy name,” said the king, “for as yet
thou speakest riddles.”
“ My name !” said the old man, and the stentorian
strength of his voice seemed to return as he uttered
it, “ is Harold —Harold the Saxon —Harold the
King—Harold the conquered !”
A bitter groan burst from his heart as he pro-
nounced the last epithet; and he hung down his head
for a moment.
The king and his attendants gazed with the in-
tensest interest on the man who they had thought had
been so long numbered with the dead. Even the
captive Robert forgot his own misfortunes in the pre-
sence of his father’s once powerful opponent. Harold,
at length, seemed to overcome his emotion, and gazed
once more on the assembled princes and barons.
“ King of England !” he said, rearing up his stately
form, and extending his hands over the monarch’s
head, “ be thou blessed ! thou hast restored the ancient
race to the throne ; and thou hast conquered the
country of the proud Conqueror. Thy reign shall
be long and prosperous ; thou shalt beget monarchs,
in whose veins shall flow the pure stream of Saxon
blood, and ages and generations shall pass away, yet.
still that race shall sit upon the throne of England.”
His voice faltered—his eyes grew dim—his uplifted
arms fell powerless to his sides—and he sunk a lifeless
corpse into the arms of the attendants.
Varieties.
Beautiful little Allegory.—A humming-bird once
met a butterfly, and being pleased with the beauty of its person
and glory of its wings, made an offer of perpetual friendship.
“ I cannot think of it,” was the reply, “as you once spurned
me, and called me a drawling dolt.” “Impossible!” ex-
claimed the humming-bird, “ I always entertained the highest
respect for such beautiful creatures as you.” “ Perhaps you
do now,” said the other, “but when you insulted me I was a
caterpillar. So let me give you this piece of advice :—Never
insult the humble, as they may one day become your superiors.”
The Poetry of Life. —What single subject has ever been
found so fraught with poetical associations as Woman herself?
And for woman to cast away the love of poetry, is to pervert
from their natural course the sweetest, and loveliest tendencies
of a truly feminine mind, to destroy the brightest charm which
can adorn her intellectual character, to blight the fairest rose in
her wreath of youthful beauty. A woman without poetry, is
like a landscape without sunshine. We see every object as
distinctly as when the sunshine is upon it; but the beauty of
the whole is wanting, the atmospheric tints, the harmony of
earth and sky, we look for in vain; and we feel that though
the actual substance of hill and dale, of wood and water, are
the same, the spirituality of the scene is gone ! — Mrs. Ellis.
The Ninety-nine Good Turns. —Strangely inconsistent
it is that one who is thankful in his heart for a single service,
should be ungrateful for a long-continued series. Such, too
frequently, is he who fails to obtain the hundredth favour.
! Shew him, at the outset of your acquaintance, a little cour-
tesy —offer him your opera-glass or your snuff-box —write him
what is called a civil note when there is no absolute necessity
for doing so, and he will trumpet your praises as one of the
most gracious of mankind. Proceed from small civilities to
essential benefits, go out of your way to evince an anxiety for
the promotion of his interests; extend your disinterested
kindness from himself to his family; get an appointment for
his oldest boy; invent a new hair dye expressly to accommo-
dote his wife, and lose a guinea a night to him at whist, the
whole season round; bind him more and more tightly in obli-
gations to you, and hear him proclaim you, nine times a day,
for nine years, the best friend he ever had in the world —the
most generous of mortals, the noblest of benefactors ; and then,
at the very moment when he is your own for ever, only just
refuse to lend him your gun, or your horse —or tell him you
could not think of writing to the Review to solicit a puff of his
new pamphlet—that’s all! How, in such a case, will the
grateful fellow, to whom you have rendered the ninety-nine
good turns, turn round upon you. He will teach you in no
time, a curious lesson—that it takes years to confer obliga-
tions, but only moments to forget them. You dragged him
out of the river once, saving his life at the risk of your own ;
you lent him a thousand pounds; you introduced him to all
the connexions in which he finds the best charms of society.
Does he remember one of these little incidents ? No; he
only recollects that you yesterday refused to buy a share or
two in the crazy speculation he was so rashly concerned in.—
Ainsworth's Magazine.
Niagara. —Measurements have been made of the volume
of water of the Niagara river, from which it appears that “ the
motive power of the cataract of Niagara exceeds by nearly
forty fold, all the mechanical force of water and steam power,
rendered available in Britain, for the purpose of imparting
motion to the machinery that suffices to perform the manu-
facturing labours for a large portion of the inhabitants of the
world, including also the power applied for transporting these
products by steam-boats and steam-carts and their steam-ships
of war, to the remotest seas. Indeed it appears probable that
the law of gravity, as established by the Creator, puts forth in
this single waterfall more intense and effective energy, than is
necessary to move all the artificial machinery of the habitable
globe. "~-~Sillman’s Journal.


The Moralist.
SINCERITY.
O thou who art enamoured with the beauties of Truth, and
hast fixed thy heart on the simplicity of her charms, hold fast
thy fidelity unto her, and forsake her not; the constancy of
thy virtue shall crown thee with honour.
The tongue of the sincere is rooted in his heart; hypocrisy
and deceit have no place in his words.
He blusheth at falsehood, and is confounded; but in speak-
ing the truth he hath a steady eye.
He supporteth as a man the dignity of his character; to the
arts of hypocrisy he scorneth to stoop.
He is consistent with himself; he is never embarrassed ;
he hath courage enough for truth, but to lie he is afraid.
He is far above the meanness of dissimulation ; the words
of his mouth are the thoughts of his heart.
Yet with prudence and caution he openeth his lips; he
studieth what is right, and speaketh with discretion.
He adviseth with friendship, he reproveth with freedom :
and whatsoever he promiseth shall surely be performed.
But the heart of the hypocrite is hid in his breast: he
masketh his words in the semblance of truth, while the business
of his life is only to deceive.
He laugheth in sorrow, he weepeth in joy ; and the words
of his mouth have no interpretation.
He worketh in the dark as a mole, and fancieth he is safe ;
but he blundereth into light, and is betrayed and exposed,
with his dirt on his head.
He passeth his days with perpetual constraint; his tongue
and his heart are for ever at variance.
He laboureth for the character of a righteous man ; and
huggeth himself in the thoughts of his cunning.
O fool, fool! the pains which thou takest to hide what thou
art, are more than would make thee what thou wouldst seem ;
and the children of wisdom shall mock at thy cunning, when,
in the midst of security, thy disguise is stripped off, and the
finger of derision shall point thee to scorn.
MORAL MAXIMS.
ALPHABETICALLY ARRANGED.
No. 28.
Bounty is more commended than imitated.
Brave actions are the substance of life, and good sayings the
ornament of it.
Bread at pleasure—drink by measure.
Breed up a crow, and he will pluck out your eyes.
Brevity is the soul of wit.
Bring your line to the wall, not the wall to your line.
Buffoonery is the corruption of wit, as knavery is of wisdom.
Building is a pastime that men pay dear for.
Bury not your faculties in the sepulchre of idleness.
Business is the salt of life.
Business makes a man as well as tries him.
Business neglected is business lost.
Five Facts. — A firm faith is the best divinity ; a good life
is the best philosophy ; a clear conscience is the best law ;
honesty is the best policy ; and temperance the best physic.
Futurity. —lt has been beautifully said, that the veil which
covers the face of Futurity is woven by the hands of Mercy :
yet, how often do we desire to tear aside that veil, and to gaze
upon that countenance, even though we know not whether it
shall be in gladness or in grief? What a blessing it is that
such efforts are unavailing; for misfortunes themselves are
more easily endured than the thick shadows they cast before
them ; and happiness is never so complete as when it comes
at the moment when we are least expecting it.— A Dreamer.
Idleness :—Sweet to those who have earned it—burden-
some to those who get it for nothing.— Ward.
Temper. —The first and most important female quality, is
sweetness of temper. Heaven did not give to the female sex
insinuation and persuasion, in order to be surly; it did not
make them weak in order to be imperious : it did not give
them a sweet voice, in order to be employed in scolding; it
did not provide them with delicate features in order to be dis-
figured with anger.
The instability of friendship furnishes one of the most
melancholy reflections suggested by the contemplation of
human life ; and few of us have travelled far upon our pilgrim-
age without having had occasion to lament the loss of some
companion who has parted from our side upon the first rumour
that we have wandered from the fountains of the desert.—
Willmot.
Select Poetry.
ADDRESS TO THE NEW YEAR.
And art thou come, fair spirit, from above,
Commission’d to fill up a further space
Between me and the boundless ocean
Of eternity—to give a longer day
To work, before the last long night sets in,
That ends my labours, and I sink to rest ?
Thankful I receive thee —I’ve much to do—
A host to conquer strongly lodged within—
A large arrear of debt to cancel off—
And talents to lay out at usury ;
Oh, be thy latest minute with the task !
• And may the gracious hand that gave me thee,
Lend its strong help to further the attempt,
Or all is vain : I know, full well, my strength
Is as a reed that bends before the breeze,
And shrivels into dryness at the blast.
Fair spirit, thou wilt see strange things, that pasa
In mazy circles on this nether sphere:
Oh, be it mine to fill thy true account
With actions that, when weigh’d in th’ balance,
May not be found wanting, but well approv’d :
O may the fair relation stand the test
Of conscience, in the solemn hour that seals
Me up for judgment irrevocable —
May that account record a spirit meek,
An humble heart, that pour’d its orisons
At morning’s light and evening’s setting ray,
In Sion’s courts, where God delights to dwell—
My chief delight to seek and meet him there.
And grant, O thou! supreme in love and light,
That°at thy altar I may still be found
The humblest guest, with wedding garments on ;
And there, beneath thy cross, to take my stand,
Till the bright angel Death shall summon hence.
— Anonymous.
OLD FATHER TIME.
[a song.]
“ Whither away ! old Father Time ?
Ah ! whither dost thou run ?”
“ Low—low,
I’ve a mob to mow ;
My work is never done.”
“ Tarry awhile with us, old Time,
And lay thy sithe aside!”—
“ Nay ! —nay !
’Tis a busy day;
My work it lieth wide.”
“ Tell us, we pray thee, why, old Time,
Thou look’st so pale and glum?”—
“ Fie ! —fie !
I evermore sigh,
‘ Eternity, oh ! come l’ ”
“ Art thou, then, tired, old Father Time ?
Thy labour dost thou rue ?” —
“ Long —long,
Has it been my song—
‘Could I but die like you!'”
“ Tell us, then, when, old Father Time,
We may expect thy death ?”
“ That morn
Eternity’s born,
Receives my parting breatb.”
“ And what’s eternity, Father Time ?
We pray thee, tell us now !” —
“ When men
Are dead, it is then
Eternity they know.”
“ Come, fill up thy glass, old Father Time,
And clog its sands with wine!”—
“ No, no;
They would faster flow.
And distil tears of brine!”
— Memoriter.


Notice.
The Editor does not hold himself responsible for the opinions and
assertions contained in the correspondence and contributions in-
serted in the Colonial Literary Journal.
Notice to (£orr?sponfccnts.
Gaffer Gray’s” Articles are received.
* Abraham Noihnagel” is under consideration.
" Mar y Ann.” The verses will be inserted at an early period.
'■ J. P. W.’s” Verses are received.
CATALLACTICS.
[continued.]
Flax. Linum Usitatissimum.
Our hobby is flax. Much as respect Mr. Elwyn—
satisfied though we be that, agreeably to his opinion,
‘‘the prosperity of the colony depends at present on
the pivot of the wool market yet, looking with an
undimmed and undiminished hope to the future, which
we may not live ourself to see, we declare it to be
our solemn conviction, serenely cherished amidst in-
difference of feeling and difference of opinion, that
from Moreton Bay to Sandy Bay, and particularly
on the rich wheat lands of the middle district, flax is
to be the making of us. Months ago we, in one of our
protean forms, published this our conviction, and
endeavoured (as yet we fear in vain) to draw the
attention of landholders and farmers to a trial of that
species of cultivation. We are not ourselves in a
condition to attempt it, but should any liberal gen-
tleman make us a present of a ticket in the ensuing
lottery of bank property, and should that ticket entitle
us to a valuable agricultural estate, we promise the
public that we shall forthwith dispose of our exten-
sive stations outside the boundaries, and become an
experimental agriculturist, horticulturist, arboricul-
turist, vigueron, and silkworm-breeder. We are
assured in our minds that we would make a good
country magistrate, though ambition is nearly extinct
in us, and that our amiable and numerous family
would be a blessing to any district. But thereafter
as may be—to return to our subject.
We promised in our last, that should we resume
our essays, we would inquire what were the spon-
taneous or indigenous productions of the colony.
Nothing is more certain than that one of them is flax,
such as has been cultivated since the beginning of the
world, and is daily worn by many who do not know
it. Ihe earliest notice we have of it is in sacred writ.
In the year b. c. 1491, a storm of hail having been
brought upon the land of Egypt, it is related that
“ flax and the barley smitten, for the barley
was in the ear and the flax was boiled.” It is, hence,
evident that the flax was an item of importance in
Egyptian agriculture. There are also numerous sub-
sequent references in Scripture to the fine linen of
Egypt ; and in the beautiful description of an in-
dustrious wife, in the book of Proverbs, it is said,
“ she seeketh wool and flax and worketli willingly
with her hands,” and “ she maketh fine linen and
selleth it.” In the backwoods of America the same
cheerful occupations are pursued at the present day,
although labour is there quite as valuable as here.
Only the superior advantages of machinery, and the
abundant supply from Russia, Holland, and Ireland,
and the artificial encouragement given to the growth
of grain, have occasioned the discontinuance of the
home growth and cottage manufacture of flax and its
fabrics in England and Scotland. But we are not
j desirous of aught more than the growing of flax, and
its shipment in the rough state.
In every part of this colony flax has been found
indigenous. We have seen it in the bush near Sydney.
We are told that it is abundant about the Paterson.
Mr. Wright, of Lanyon, who brought us last winter
a specimen from the Snowy Mountains, which we
exhibited for a time in the Australian Library, in-
formed us that he could procure tons of it in its wild
state ; and we find by the Colonial Times, of the 7th
December, that it, together with a species of hemp or
cannabis , has attracted the observation of competent
persons in Hobart Town, who have commenced its
manufacture into cordage. We do not say that the
kinds found in these different parts of the Australias
are the same as those with which we were familiar in
the old world. Perhaps they are not so valuable—
possibly more so. That which we had from the in-
terior was apparently as good in point of fibre as any
we ever saw, but the seeds were nearly as small as
tobacco seeds. But as the blue flower was still on
part of the plant, we believe that the capsule was not
fully grown. But whatever might be the relative
value, it appears to us that nature has never spoken
more plainly than in this matter. And why has her
monition not been attended to? Simply because in
the period subsequent to the wheat husbandry be-
coming unprofitable, there have been found scarcely
any settler who knows the plant. It is now so little
cultivated in Great Britain, owing to its impoverish-
ing effects on soils which require frequent manuring,
that few of our farm-bred, and fewer still of our
town-bred, agriculturists have seen a field of it, much
less know that the yield of one acre of it is worth
£lO to £2O when prepared for shipment.
In ancient Egypt, the reader will recollect, there
fell little or no rain. As the flax was boiled about
the beginning of March, and sufficiently advanced to
be destroyed by hail, and as the subsidence of the
Nile had in the usual course been completed in the
beginning of November, it appears to follow that the
sowing of the flax seed took place as soon as the
ground was sufficiently dry at the surface to prevent
the seed rotting before springing; * and that the
moisture received into the inferior parts of the soil
from the superincumbent inundation was quite suffi-
cient to nourish the roots of this plant as well as of
the cerealia, until they attained maturity. In this
colony, if the fields of wheat get a good soaking in
the early stages of its growth, we believe it will stand
any degree of after drought. No doubt the quantity
of flax w r ould in a dry season be checked, as would
the quantity of wheat straw. But in general it is
not this effect that is most to be apprehended. What
usually renders our wheat culture vexatious, is the
injury to which the grain is liable. By drought it is
reduced in quantity —by blight, smut, rust, and
mildew, it is frequently entirely destroyed—to say
nothing of caterpillars, cockatoos, and weevils. Flax,
however, though affecting the same soil and weather
as wheat, is not exposed to these accidents. It is the
stalk and not the seed that is regarded. That very
rankness of vegetation which occurs so frequently in
the early part of the driest seasons, and renders it
necessary on our riverbanks, where the rich friable
* Abjecta prius semina in limo digressi amnis Novembri
mense incipiente. [Digressus —preterite participle.'] From
the 15th November to Ist March are 105 days: the plant
matures in about 110.


soil adapted for flax is unlimited in extent, to turn
cattle into the wheat, or to cut it down, would be
favourable to the flax growler, for though the quality
would probably be slightly deteriorated, the w r eight
of his crop wmuld be greatly increased. What has
been asserted may be true, that the wild flax is found
to be most thriving in damp situations. We believe
that every uncultivated plant, which nature has not
decidedly adapted for an arid and arenose habitat
only, would grow most luxuriantly in such a place.
But it by no means follows that, the ground being
well soaked and pulverised, it would not prefer in
its cultivated state a soil intermediate in character.
In our own youthful experience, we saw it grown
always on the same soils as the bread grains, and
wherever we have seen it in this colony, we saw no
special indications of moisture, and we therefore
suspect that those who insist on a swampy soil are
confounding our flax, the linum , with the New Zealand
phormium tenax. Virgil sayeth clearly that linseed
must be sown in dry weather:
“ Necnon est lini segetem et Cereale papaver
Tempus humo tegere et jamdudum incumbere rastris
Dum sicca tellure licet dum nubila pendent
a prescription which we translate (omitting the
opium) :
“ Now is the time, while yet the glebe is dry,
And while the clouds hang harmless in the sky,
To cover in the linseed, and to smooth
The field with grovelling harrow's iron tooth.”
These are directions which could not well be used
with respect to a water plant. Virgil likewise avers
that “ the flaxen harvest burns the ground,” in the
same way as oats.
" Urit enim lini campum seges, urit avena?.”
But manifestly this has nothing to do with drought.
It means only that they are exhausting crops. And
he had in view chiefly light sandy soils. (Vide
Georg. Lib. I. v. 70 to 77.)
In 1824, Sir Thomas Brisbane imported a con-
siderable quantity of linseed, which was allowed to
lie in a warehouse in George-street for a year or
more for the benefit of the weevils. The money and
enterprise of those days belonged almost wholly to
gentlemen bred in the Minories, whose ideas extended
no farther than to the erection of public-houses and
distilleries, and who placed their whole happiness in
eating and drinking. The purblind and sinister
patriotism of the present day is otherwise directed
but we fear equally wide of good.
The great Company, misnamed Agricultural, have
done good service to the colony in two or three ways
It might, we suggest, be worth their while to try
half a dozen acres with flax. We promise them a
richer reward than ever they are likely to derive
irom their pastoral pursuits.
We conclude our present paper with an extract
from Loudon, enumerating the various sorts ■* and
next week we may have some curious and useful
information from various writers.
GAFFER GRAY.
* Linum usitatissimum, perenne, nervosum, triffvnum
h.rsu um, hypenci folium, ascyrifolium, narbonense, reflexum
tenuifohum, angustifohum, gallicum, maritimum, alpinum
austnacum, yirgimanum, rigidum, flavum, campanulatum
tauncum, stnctum, suffruticosum, arboreum, africaSum nodi’
florum, catharticum, quadrifolium. m ’ nodl '
CHEMICAL PHILOSOPHY.
[Continued from No. 26.]
on the nature of carbon and its varieties.
Carbon is a mineral which is very rarely met with
uncombined ; it is considered to be more abundantly
distributed than even those substances which are
usually said to be most abundant, and may be looked
upon as the basis of all organic construction. Every
plant that grows, every article of our daily consump-
tion, every animal on the face of the earth, has its
portion of carbon to aid as a groundwork for life and
growth, and when every portion of those materials
containing carbon is destroyed by fire, or decomposed
by putrefaction, the carbon is found in the form of
an acid gas. Carbo is the Latin for coal : carbon is
the chemical name for charcoal. Charcoal is there-
fore present in our bodies, in our wearing apparel,
our diet, and it exists in oil, which when melted
appears to retain no substance. We are too much
accustomed to limit our ideas to those portions of a
material which are visible and in most frequent use,
and hence has arisen the notion amongst unlearned
persons that charcoal is a term simply applied to
burnt wood, whereas the ashes of all vegetables, and
bones of animals, the soot in the chimney, and the
smoke of lamps and candles, as also the burnt wicks
of the same, are all varieties of the form of carbon or
charcoal. The blood of our bodies may be burned
until it is becomes charcoal. During the combustion
of all these substances a part of the carbon escapes in
the form of a gas. The carbon obtained by the
burning of bones is called ivory black and is used for
painting. Lamp black is also a species of carbon
obtained from turpentine in the form of soot. The
principal use made of lamp black is in the manufacture
of printer's ink.
Common wood charcoal, as we are accustomed to
see it, has not undergone the process of combustion,
that is, it has not been burned by the aid of oxygen.
Wood is converted into charcoal by being heated in
close vessels where the air cannot enter. Jf it were
burned by admitting the air, carbonic acid gas would
escape, and the ash would be the saline and earthy
matters. Wood charcoal absorbs the odoriferous
principles of most animal and vegetable substances; it
is therefore that tainted flesh and foul ivater may be
purified by filtration through powdered charcoal.
Powdered wood charcoal mixed with sulphur and
nitre, pounded and well pressed together in a wooden
mortar and mixed with a small portion of water,
forms gunpowder. The sudden expansion of these
materials when ignited, is the cause of the noise or
detonation which takes place. The black coal which
is used as ordinary fuel, consists principally of carbon
and bitumen, of which there are many varieties ; those
which are considered most inferior contain evidences
of the remains of wood and vegetables, and are of a
brown appearance; they burn with less heat, and
produce copious cinders. Coke is the carbonaceous
remains of coal that has been heated for the purpose
of separating the gases from it, for lighting the streets
and public buildings. It is considered an impure
form of carbon. Charcoal derived from spirit of wine
is almost quite pure. The diamond is the only ab-
solute pure carbon yet found in nature.
The diamond which deservedly ranks in estima-
tion as the brightest and purest gem of nature, both
for its brilliancy and utility, is a crystal formed
by the decomposition of carbon. We are at present


ignorant of the natural process of crystallization in
this case, hut that the diamond is carbon in its purest
state was ascertained and proved by Sir Isaac New-
ton. When it is heated to redness in the open air, it
is entirely consumed. When heated by a blowpipe,
and then placed in a jar of oxygen, it will continue
to burn until the whole is consumed, and the product
will be exactly the same as the burning of pure
charcoal, namely, carbonic acid gas. Diamond is
therefore carbon in its highest state of purity. It is
the hardest substance in nature, and is used for cutting
glass ; it is also employed for the pivot holes in
watches. It is the most valuable and costly ornament
in jewellery and was first discovered in Golconda.
The carbon thus distributed in nature is an elemen-
tary substance, and is only discerned when separated
from its combinations. Heat is the most powerful
agent in decomposition, and when any substance
containing carbon is subjected to heat, the various
compounds become reduced to ash or vapour, and the
carbon remains alone, or itself also assumes the form
of gas. Owing to the constant burning of coals,
wood, oil, &c., which daily takes place all over the
earth, as well as by the respiration of animals, car-
bonic acid is always present, in the atmosphere, even
at the summit of the highest mountains, or at a dis-
tance of several thousand feet above the ground.
The carbonic acid gas exhaled by respiration arises
from a process of combustion, for it is not necessary
that our bodies shall be actually inflamed within us,
to produce combustion, but it is a fact that the blood
is always exceedingly heated, and that it is at a
temperature to attract the oxygen from the air, which
oxygen ©n entering our bodies supports and carries
on the combustion or separation of the component
parts of the blood, by which means the carbon is set
free and escapes as a gas by our action of breathing.
This gas though exhaled by us, could not in its pure
state be inhaled without suffocation ; even when par-
tially present, as in the case of charcoal burning in a
pan, insensibility and sometimes death will occur, the
carbonic gas acting as a narcotic or overdosed sleeping
draught. Although this gas is thus injurious to life
when taken into the lungs by respiration, yet when
taken into the stomach, it is on the contrary very
useful and generally very pleasant. The agreeable
briskness of porter and ale is owing to the presence of
this gas, by the loss of which, when exposed to the air,
it becomes dead or as it is termed stale. All mineral
waters contain it, and boiled water has its insipid
taste from its absence. The presence of carbonic acid
or fixed air in those liquors mentioned, as also in
champagne, is produced by its formation during the
decomposition of the vegetables or fruit from which
they are formed. It would all escape during the
fermentation if some portion of the liquor was not
bottled or barrelled during the escape of the gas. B.
PEARLS FROM “ SAM SLICK.”
« When I see a child, 1 always feel safe with the women folk,
for 1 have always foun4 that the road to a woman’s heart lies
through her child.”
h There are some folks who think a good deal, and say but
little, and they are wise folks; and there are others, agin, who
blart out whatever comes uppermost; and I guess they are
pretty considerable darned fools.”
“ There is no way so good to lam French as to live among
’em ; and, if you want to understand us, you must live among
us, too; your Halls, Hamiltons, and such critturs, what can
they know of us? Can a chap catch a likeness flying along
a railroad? Can he even seethe featurs?”
“It ain’t them that stare the most, that see the best always,
I guess.”
“ Scotchmen cut their eye-teeth afore ever they set foot in
this country, I expect. When they get a bawbee they know
what to do with it, that’s a fact. They open their pouch and
drop it in; and it’s got a spring like a fox-trap; it holds fas l
to all it gets, like grim death to a dead nigger.”
“ Power has a nateral tendency to slothful corpulency.”
“ The littler folks be, the bigger they talk. You never see'd
a small man that didn’t wear high-heel boots, and a high-
crowned hat, and that warn’t ready to fight almost any one, to
show that he was a man every inch of him.
“ An intemperate advocate is more dangerous than an open
foe.”
“ Presents of money injure both the giver and receiver, and
destroy the equilibrium of friendship, and diminish indepen-
dence and self-respect.”
“ Be rather the advocate of internal improvement than poli-
tical change. Neither flatter the mob nor the government;
what you think, speak ; try to satisfy yourself and not others ;
and if you are not popular, you will at least be respected.
lasts but a day ; but respect will descend as a
heritage to vour children.”
“ I don’t like preaching to the narves instead of the judg-
ment.”
“ Everything that gives power to numbers will carry num-
bers.”
“ I’m a great fri’nd to decency, for decency is a manly
vartue ; and to delicacy, for delicacy is a faminine vartue ; but
as for squeamishmess, rat me! if it don’t make me sick.”
“ Squeamishness and indelicacy are often found united ; in
short, in manners, as in other things, extremes meet.”
“ Humility is the dress-coat of pride.”
“ Book-l’arned men seldom know anything but books; and
there is one, that never was printed yet, worth all they’ve got
on their shelves, but which they never read, nor even so much
as cut the leaves of, for they don’t onderstand the hand writ-
ing, and that book is human natur’.”
“ Most men like to be thought knowing on the subject of
woman.”
“ Patriotism is infernal hungry, and as savage as old Scratch
if it ain’t fed. If you want to tame it, you must treat it as
Van Amburg does his lions, keep its belly full.
Punning. — l must not forget the circumstance that asso-
ciates the name and fame of the Witty Watkin Hayman.with
the facetious squire of Gwersylt Park. Of course, he (Hayman)
could make a pun when he chose to descend so low in the scale
of colloquial accomplishments ; and during an evening that he
passed tete-a-tete with Mr. Humbertone, they had punned
against each other, in rivalry. Hayman, at length, finding
that he had brought the “squire” to a standstill, brought his
wit into play ; and putting his crutch under his arm, got up
and rung the bell. On the butler making his appearance, he
thus gravely addressed him, “ I will thank you to bring your
master a pun.” Now, although it was the opinion of Dr.
Johnson that a man who makes a pun is equal to picking
pockets, thereby expressing his thorough contempt of the prac-
tice, still there are moments in which one well and aptly applied
cannot fail to be applauded ; and I will give an example.
Towards the heel of an evening at Gwersylt Park, two Welsh
squires, sitting close to each other at the dinner-table, and
having made the best use of their time with the bottle, were
nodding their heads, in their sleep, to the danger of their
coming into contact with each other. “ Those gentlemen will
fight in their sleep presently,” observed one of the party.
“ That would be mcn-dosing,” said the late Sir Richard
Puleston, in allusion to the pugilist Mendoza, at that time m
repute ; and we may presume, in compliment to his host, who
might expect a pun from a guest of so lively a fancy as Sn
Richard. — Memoriter.
Why is a benevolent man like a cart-horse? Because he
stops at the sound of woe.


Original Poetry.
“TEMPUS FUGIT CITO PEDE.”
[Australian Shepherd.]
Another year has passed—the bell hath tolled
In solemn tones its parting requiem !
Hark ! the last sound—how mournfully—how sad—
Amid the silent night to each it speaks
The knell of hours gone to return no more—
Swept in the ocean of the boundless past,
Whose waves sleep calmly on oblivion’s shore,
From out whose deep fond memory oftimes fills
A fount of pleasantness, with streams of peace,
To cheer each fragile flower and aged tree
That joyless withers ’mid life’s desert waste.
The pale stars veiled beneath the weeping clouds,
Which the thick sable pall of sightless night
Shrouds with funereal canopy,
In silence mourn their future destiny—
Poised upon high, dread time, on wing upraised,
With plume of waving light unceasing change,
Pauses to list to each deep measure tolled,
And with exulting smile, on outstretched wing
Speeds onward soaring in swift noiseless flight
To view the ruin which his step had brought;
While the light breeze, that sighed o’er joys once known,
Wafted their echo deep in pity kind
Back unto earth with its expiring breath,
To warn the close of the departed year.
Who can reflect upon the year that’s gone,
And will not to recall his misspent life
The days of sinfulness —hours misimproved
The cold indifference—luke-warm belief
And worldly love, with not a thought of heaven —
Alas, frail memory but ill retains
The fearful record that will be reserved
Of one short year—so great the catalogue
Of guilt recorded ’gainst our erring souls,
And of our lives—we cannot, dare not dwell
Upon the fearful sum—whose weight, alas,
Burdens our conscience till our spirits faint, —
For as we trace each act on memory’s chain,
We add but link to link, and pain to pain.
LINES
By a Young Lady , on the death of a beloved Mother , and the
subsequent departure of two Brothers to foreign climes.
Sad are the moments, when, with fondest care,
My mem’ry pictures things as once they were—
Brings recollections, fraught with peace and joy,
Of childhood’s pleasures, free from care’s alloy;
And sweet remembrances of riper years—
When, if we wept, we still could smile through tears :
So blythe and gay are those who first begin
To track their pathway through this world of sin.
Too soon come parting moments—first we knew
What parting was, when one blest spirit flew
To join the choir of ransomed spirits, where
All things are happy, all are matchless fair:
Never may we forget that utter woe,
The deepest sorrow that we e’er can know.
Then came the hour that tore from our embrace
A dearly loved one of our scanty race ;
And then another! both our brothers gone,
And we their sisters left to mourn alone ;
And mourn we must, till brighter days shall come,
And these dear wanderers once more reach their home:
What joy to meet, and all our grief shall fly—
Oh ! come that day of blissful extacy ! !
A TRADITION.
The Chieftain loved his own fair wife, and the offspring round
her knees ; but the passions he had indulged in his lawless
youth still boiled in his veins, and she was often left solitary
in the castle, weeping over the sins of her lord. One summer
moonlight night he was returning home, all alone, across the
head of the great glen, when a lady of more than mortal beauty
stood suddenly before him, with a large jewel shining like a
star on her forehead. Her long black hair hung over her neck
and shoulders, that had no other covering, and the rest of her
figure was so thinly robed, that she shrunk from his gaze, and
besought him to let her pursue her way along the moor. Of
the mystery of her appearance in that desert she could not
speak, but wept, and kept wringing her hands like one forsaken
• and utterly forlorn. The chieftain veiled her loveliness in his
plaid, and almost taking her in his arms, continued his way
towards the castle. Wearied and faint was she with her long
wanderings up and down the moor; and “Never—never,” she
sighed, “am I to see my friends more! —They have abandoned
me to my fate.” As they entered the Pine Forest that sur-
rounded the castle with a league of gloomy shade, the lady
entreated to be laid down, and allowed to perish, for that her
heart felt as if about to cease its beating, and the death-hour
must be near. Smitten with her beauty, which, though some-
what pale, glowed through the dimness of sleep like a rose,
that, though a little faded, the dews may revive, the chieftain
carried her, seemingly insensible, on his breast, and then lovingly
laid her down on the moss and leaves by the brink of a well,
with whose waters he bathed her forehead, and kissed away
the drops as they trickled over her large heavy eye-lids,
surcharged with pernicious beauty. And soon as he pressed
her to his bosom, he heard her lips murmur his name; nor
did they withdraw themselves from the burning kisses that
smothered the delightful sighs of that confession—“ Oh ! that
I might be beloved as she is beloved who now sits sobbing for
her faithless lord.” “Star of the desert! by me shall thou be
prized beyond the salvation of my own soul. For draughts of
such breath as thine, would I sell myself to eternal bale.”
The moon broke through a cloud, and in a moment the obscurity
of the forest-depths was as light as day. Sweet as a far-off
echo was heard the voice of one singing a hymn—a hymn of
prayer and supplication. The face of the phantom shrivelled
up into loathsome corruption—her bony arms clattered as
they relaxed their embrace—and a skeleton, white as if
bleached by the sun and storm of a hundred years, lay by the
margin of the fountain.
But lo ! a figure all in white comes gliding onwards through
a glade among the pines, singing a low wild song, that sounds
like a lament or a dirge; and now she beholds what seems a
corpse lying upon the bank, and with a shriek sinks down
beside it on her knees. “ Oh, hath my dreadful dream been
indeed fulfilled—and is my brave, my beautiful, my beloved,
to lie in this bosom no more!” The words, and the voice that
uttered them, were known even in that long dismal swoon—
and he feared no more to open his eyes in the forest gloom.
The skeleton was gone—and lying in his bosom was his own
wedded wife, more beautiful and lovelier far in her forgiving
innocence, than any phantom ever sent from the palace of the
Prince of Darkness, to lure to perdition the souls of the
children of men.
ENGLISH NEWS.
By the Persian English news have been received to the I7th
September.
The harvest had turned out much more abundant than was
expected in the early part of the summer, and the crop was
fully an average one.
Trade was still brisk, and wool maintained its price.
Parliament was prorogued by Commission, and the differ-
ences between England and France respecting Tahiti had'
been satisfactorily arranged.
The French having taken Mogadore, the Emperor of Mo-
rocco had acceded to the wishes of the French, and promised
not to interfere with Algeria, and consequently peace had been
restored.
The House of Lords had reversed the judgment against Mr.
O’Connell, and others, who had been consequently released
from prison. The English Judges were divided in opinion
upon the case, seven being for, and two against the judgment.
The question was ultimately decided by five law lords, Lords
Lyndhurst and Brougham being in favour of the judgment,
and Lords Cottenham, Denman, and Campbell against it, and
so the judgment was reversed. The intelligence, which was
quite unexpected, was received with great enthusiasm in
Ireland.
Her Majesty was on a visit to Scotland.
Lord Stanley was called by writ to the House of Lords.


Shipping EntdUgence.
ARRIVALS.
December 25.—The ship Matilda, 453 tons, Captain Bliss,
from the whaling grounds.
December 26.—The brig Bee, 134 tons, Captain Unthank,
from Port Nicholson the Bth, and Kaffia the the 12th December.
December 27.—The ship Persian 600 tons, Captain Mallard,
from Portsmouth the 18th September.
December 27. —The steamer Maitland , 103 tons, Captain
Parsons, from Port Macquarie, with 59 bales of wool, &c.
December 27. —The steamer William the Fourth, 51 tons,
Captain Wiseman, from the Clarence River, with 48 bales of
wool, &c.
December 30.—The barque Morayshire, 315 tons, Captain
Smith, from the Downs the 3rd September.
December 30.—The schooner Coolangatta, 88 tons, Captain
Napper, from Auckland 29th November, Kawao the Bth and
the Bay of Islands the 12th instant.
December 30.—The American ship Falcon, 273 tons, Cap-
tain Richmond, from the Whale Fishery.
December 30. —The brig Sarah Birkett, 202 tons, Captain
Proddow, from Liverpool the 12th August.
December 30.—The brig Caroline, 113 tons, Captain Loten,
from Launceston the 21st instant.
December 30.—The schooner Wave, 65 tons, Captain Birk-
inshaw, from Port Phillip the 25th instant
December 31.—The steamer Shamrock, 200 tons, Captain
Gilmore, from Port Phillip the 26th, Launceston the 28th,
and Twofold Bay the 30th December.
December 31 —The schooner Scotia, 68 tons, Captain
Ward, from the Bluff, New Zealand, the 19th instant, with
25 tuns black oil, 1 ton bone.
January I.—The ship Elizabeth, from Manilla, with sugar.
January I.—The steamer James Watt, 141 tons, Captain
Taggart, from Hobart Town 27th December, with colonial
produce.
Jauuary I.—The brig Louisa, Captain Tucker, from Hobart
Town 27th December, with merchandise.
DEPARTURES.
December 25.—The schooner Marian Watson, Captain
Reynolds, for the Mauritius.
December 27. —The schooner Eagle, Captain Hodges, for
Circular Head.
December 28. —The steamer Sovereign, Captain r ape, for
Moreton Bay.
December 31.—The schooner Oratava, Captain Cooney, for
the Bay of Islands.
33irtIjS.
At her residence, Kent-street, on the 25th instant, Mrs.
Thomas Burrowes, of a son.
At her residence, Pir-street south, on the 25th instant, Mrs.
Robert Burrowes, of a daughter.
On the 25th instant, at Balmain, Mrs. John Levey Roberts,
of a son.
Ucatl;s.
On the 31st December, at her residence, Fort-street, Mrs.
Elizabeth Bolyn, aged 76 years.
On Saturday, the 28th ultimo, at Eaton Villa, Darlinghurst,
George Thomas Booth, eldest son of Mr. J. B. Jones, aged
eleven years and fifteen days; regretted by all who knew him
for his amiable disposition.
CTolontal fUterarg journal,
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
rpHE TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION to this Journal
X are, Three Shillings per Quarter, in Town ; Country,
Three Shillings and Sixpence; payable, in every case,
in advance.
Terms for Advertisements :—For one inch, and under
Three Shillings; and One Shilling for every additional inch,
each insertion. Advertisements will be received until Two
o’Clock on Wednesday afternoon; but cannot be withdrawn
later than Nine o’Clock on Wednesday morning. Adver-
tisements must specify on the face of them the number of
times they are to be inserted, or they will be continued till
countermanded, and charged accordingly.
All communications must he addressed to “The Editor of
the Colonial Literary Journal, General Printing Office, 316,
Pitt-street,” (post paid.)
COLOURED DAGUERREOTYPES !!
49, HUNTER STREET,
(Two doors from O'Connell-street.)
MR. G. B. GOODMAN has great pleasure to announce
to the public, that he has just received from the
Patentee in England, the new process, lately discovered, of
colouring the Daguerreotype Portraits, and having already
executed some very beautiful likenesses in this style, he will
be happy to submit them to the inspection of those who will
favour him with a visit.
It may be as well for general information to observe, that
these Portraits are taken almost instantaneously, and produce
as faithful a representation of the face and figure as is pre-
sented by Standing opposite a mirror, being in fact the reflec-
tion itself fixed permanently in the glass or polished surface,
thus producing in effect a “ Second Self.”
The pictures effected by this art are superior to the finest
engravings for delicacy of shadowing and minuteness of
delineation, and have hitherto only wanted colour to make
them perfect, which grand desideratum has been at length
achieved, and Mr. G. B. Goodman hastens to apprise the
public of this most important addition.
On account of the depression of the times the price wil
still be limited to one guinea for the coloured likeness, includ-
ing a handsome gilt and morocco case.
Specimens to be seen at Mr. Isaac Levey’s, Draper, George-
street, and Mr. Aldis’s, Tobacconist; the Bank of Australia;
and at the Photographic Gallery, 49, Hunter-street.
Sydney, November 25.
COLONIAL LITERARY JOURNAL.
BINDING.
Publishers have been requested by several subscribers
JL to make arrangements for the binding of the first Vol.
of the Colonial Literary Journal, which was completed with
the Twenty-seventh Number. Subscribers are informed that
the Publishers will be ready to receive copies to be bound to
order, by which, from the number already engaged for, a con-
siderable saving will be effected to each individual.
WANTED, a Situation as Gardener, or a Garden, in the
vicinity of Sydney, by a professed and experienced
Gardener. Apply at this Office.
COTTAGE WANTED.
ANTED, a small Cottage on the North Shore, or other
\ V retired situation, with a small paddock or use of waste
ground attached. There must be good water on the premises,
and the rent not to exceed 6s. or 7s. per week.
Particulars to be sent to R. B. at the Office of this paper.
TO LET.
APARTMENTS suitable for Offices, together with Stable
and Gig House, if required, situate in a central part of
Pitt-street, near King-street, for particulars apply at the Office
of this Journal.
Colonial Eiterary Journal.
Collector for Sydney Mr. Francis Wye.
Our Subscribers are requested to observe that the Quarterly Sub-
scription to the Journal is made payable in advance. The
present heavy expenses require this. Those therefore who have
omitted to pay their last quarter's subscription, together with the
present one in advance, are requested to forward the same to the
nearest Agent at their earliest convenience.
Agents for this Journal.
Sydney, Mr. W. Jones, Circulating Library, Brickfield-hill.
Parramatta Mr. Hugh Taylor
Windsor Mr. Walker.
Bathurst Mr. Tress.
West Maitland Mr. Galloway:
Camden, Campbelltown, Penrith, and
Liverpool Mr. C. Lester.
Gunnins Mr. Hawthorne.
