

LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
“ NON TUA TE MOVEANT, SED PUBLICA VOTA.”
Vol. I. No. 2.]
SYDNEY, THURSDAY, JULY 4, 1844.
[Price 4d.
BOOKS AND BANTLINGS
It has often been observed, pathetically and sati-
rically, that the partiality of authors, for their works
greatly resembles that of parents for their children.
We mean to make some uncommon remarks upon
this common-place position, and to establish its
general truth by an induction of particulars.
First, we may notice that, in each case, the affec-
tion too often is not reciprocal. Books, indeed, if we
may judge by results, are frequently the most un-
grateful children in the world, exposing their parents’
infirmities, “ cooling their friends, heating their
enemies,” involving them in disgrace and beggary,
not seldom bringing them to gaol or pillory; and
often, ere now, to the torture, the stake, or the gal*
lows. Some are said to have driven their authors
mad ; but here, it must be confessed, there has gene-
rally been an hereditary twist of insanity in the
offspring. Some, like Regan and Goneril, sound
high their parents’ praise, and afterwards expose them
to the pitiless world, and all its storms. A few, like
good Cordelia, speak not of their fathers at all; and
these are they that honour and protect their grey
hairs.
Yet, such is the final perseverance of parental love,
that no author was ever known to like his works the
less in his heart for all the calamities they had
brought upon him, though many have been induced,
from motives of fear or prudence, to disown them.
Sometimes, too, the prolific are led, by the lucre of
gain, to deck the childless with parental honours.
Adopted books are as common as adopted children ;
many a work has been fathered falsely, many a one,
in legal phrase, is nullius filius; and here and there
it happens, that literary parents, as well as natural
ones, endeavour to pass off their proper offspring for
foundlings.
The less a child is liked by the world, the dearer
it becomes to its father and mother. Does not this
hold good with regard to unpopular authors, who may
be said, literally, to doat upon their productions? It
is an awful thing to meet the mother of a spoiled
booby, whose insolence or idleness have incurred con-
dign punishment from master or school-fellow. We
have seen writers as irrationally furious when the
mooncalves of their brain have been undergoing the
rod of criticism.
It is a great topic of censure with grandmothers,
ladies of a certain age, and precise old bachelors, that
the youth of both sQxes in the rising generations are
brought out too soon. Critics, ever since Horace’s
“ nonum prematur in annum,” and probably long
before, have kept up the same outcry against the pre-
mature publications of authors, in as kindly a spirit,
and with nearly the same effect.
Is there any anxiety greater than that of a young
poet on the eve of appearing in print, when his darling
effusions are to throw off their nursery-attire of manu-
script, in which they were only producible at family
parties, or, at most, to a few friends, and appear in
type, a-la-mode, with fashionable margins, to the
expectant public ? None, certainly, within our male
ccelibate range of experience ; but if looks, gestures,
hints, expound the female heart, the anxiety of a
mother at her daughter’s first debut in rout or assembly
is at least equal. We are afraid these parental emo-
tions meet with little symyathy in either case. The
mother may have a husband, indeed, to share, while
he chides her folly ; but the luckless scribbler has no
partner in his. A friend, a sister, or a wife, may
wish him well, but none but a poet can conceive his
feelings. And poets, the more the pity, feel very
little for one another. We have been often told, that
none but a parent can imagine a parent’s joys, or
woes, or fears —most heartily we believe it; but we
know, that no soul that is innocent of inkshed, can
conceive the unimaginable throes, the solicitude, the
eager anticipations, the nervous tremors, the day
thoughts wild as dreams, the nightly visions, vivid
and continuous as wakeful life, of a fresh candidate
for literary fame.
But who, in these most educated and enlightened
days, is not such a candidate ? Buonaparte called us
a nation of shop-keepers ; and it were as- well if we
were to remain so; but we are in imminent danger of
becoming a nation of authors and orators. For, in
truth, every one who writes or speaks with design to
produce effect , with a wish not merely to be under-
stood, but admired, becomes de facto an author or an
orator —a competitor for the fame of intellect. Now
does not every schoolboy that contends for a prize,
every apprentice that pens a valentine, every traveller
that scrawls on an inn window, fall under this defi-
nition ? Is not every advertisement a specimen of
authorship, and every vestry meeting an arena of
rhetoric ? Can a toast be proposed at club or ordinary,
but calls forth more tropes and figures than gram-
marians have invented for ? Moreover, is there
any essential difference between oratory and author-
ship ? Do not both proceed from one impulse, and
aim at one end ? Words, uttered or written, are their


common means, their common end is admiration-
scribbler and spouter alike crave from their fellow-
creatiires a ratification of the opinion they entertain
ot their own powers—a sympathy with the delight
tnay feel in displaying them.
And the gentle maiden, when, addressing her dear
mother, or dear, dear governess, or dear, dear, very
uear friend and school-fellow, she crosses and re-
crosses perpendicularly and diagonally her pretty
temimne phrases, till the mere aet of perusing the
close-woven, texture of tenderness becomes a com-
plete refutation of the vulgar sarcasms against female
patience, she, too, feels the fire of literary ambition,
and somewhat of a maternal yearning ; sht too is an
authoress. She has caught the epidemic of the age—
an infection so universal, that we can scarce pick up
a scrap of whitey-brown paper, a meagre collection
of pot-hooks and hangers, sealed with a thimble, that
is not composed in a style.
Not only, indeed, will we maintain that Valentine
writers, letter writers, &c., partake of the parental
feelings of authorship, but that they possess them in
much greater force and purity than many authors by
profession, who are apt, like parents in slave-ex-
porting countries, to consider their offspring as mere
articles of traffic, and care little for them after they
are sold. The love or the need of money can ex-
tinguish the natural affection even of an author for
his lucubrations. The genuine literary parent desires
indeed that his offspring should be dear to others as
to himself. Men cannot bear an undivided love, or
joy, or sorrow. But he is a very different being from
the mere mercenary of the press—for he is more
anxious for readers than purchasers. He is also dis-
tinguished by a longing for posthumous fame rather
than temporary eclat. So do affectionate fathers pray
that their posterity may survive them, and hope to
live after death in their children’s children.
Some writers spoil their works by over-indulgence
to their whims and fancies—others, by extreme severity
of correction, give them a harsh, stiff, ungenial cha-
racter. The analogy will easily suggest itself. One
more resemblance -we will mention, the most pregnant
of all. Every father and mother that have many
children, however impartial .they may deem it their
duty to show themselves, will be better pleased with
some than others. There is a pet in almost every
family, So it is with the authors of many works :
however well they may love them all, they will have
some pet production, some favourite passage, some
minion thought, some darling simile. One will prefer
his first-born, another the child of his old age. Some
the offspring of the hardest labour, and some the
babe of easiest birth. Nor shall we be at a loss to
find among these literary parental partialities, a strong
similitude to the affection which mothers are said to
feel for weaklings and idiots.
Extrinsic circumstances, pleasant or pleasing me-
lancholy associations —local recollections—any of the
countless chains that bind the past to the present,
may determine the preference. The verse or period
wdiich has been read in mellowing tones of lore by
mistress or by friend, will be precious, though all the
rest were scorned or forgotten. But, in general, the
parent will prefer the child, and the writer the book,
which is likest himself, wdiich bears the strongest im-
press o* his individuality.— Blackwood .
Biography.
CHRISTINA.
[Abridged from Mrs. Jameson’s Memoirs.]
Christina, Queen of Sweden, born on the 18th of December,
1626, was the daughter of Gustavus Adolphus and of Maria
Eleanora, of Brandenburg; and succeeded to the throne of
her father when she was only five years old.
She discovered, from her earliest infancy, a decided taste
for literature and science, which, as she advanced in life,
became her most agreeable occupations.
In 1644, being then eighteen, she was declared of age,
according to the laws of Sweden ; the regency was dissolved,
and she assumed the reins of government with all the cere-
monies usual on such occasions. Having ascended the throne,
she selected, without any regard to rank, those whom she con-
sidered most capable of guiding her in the conduct of affairs.
She studied the character and manners of other nations, and
observing, with the greatest sagacity, the genius and errors of
foreign ministers, was the better enabled to adopt or reject
their ideas in the government of her own country.
We can hardly imagine a position more magnificent and
interesting than that of Christina when she assumed the
government of her kingdom ; and the portrait which may be
drawn of her at this period of her life, presents a picture so
different from that degradation of character and situation she
afterwards exhibited, that, in justice to her—in justice to
human nature—we must dwell upon it for a moment.
Sweden, which had been for several ages only an obscure
corner of Europe, had gradually risen in the scale of nations,
from the time that Gustavus Vasa, the great-grandfather of
Christina, bad delivered his country from the usurpation of
the Danes. It bad attained the highest degree of glory and
importance by the military exploits and political influence of
her father, the great Gustavus. After his death, and during
the minority of his daughter, the wise and firm administration
of the council of regency maintained the glory of the Swedish
Arms, and the internal tranquility and prosperity of the
kingdom.
Under these auspicious circumstances, Christina assumed a
sceptre which was her’s by the double right of her hereditary
claims, and the free consent of the states-general. She was in
the bloom of youth, full of health, vigour, and activity : the
natural cheerfulness of her spirits had been preserved by con-
stant exercise of body and mind ; and although she was proud,
and passionate, and capricious, she was also gay, frank, and
generous. She entertained at this time a lofty, and even
sublime idea of the high destiny to which she was called, and
of the multiplied duties and tremendous responsibility it im-
posed on her. She was learned beyond most of her sex ; she
understood most of the languages of Europe, and was a pro-
ficient in Greek and Latin.
She would have no prime minister, and, from the very
commencement of her reign, she received and read all the
dispatches, and dictated the replies to her secretaries. Her
indefatigable attention to the business of the state excited the
astonishment of the foreign ministers, and the admiration of
her people. She constantly attended the deliberations of her
councils, and by the force of her character and her resolute
temper, she exercised the most unbounded influence over the
senate. It is asserted that she was at this time more despotic
than any Swedish sovereign from the time of Eric XIV. to
the change of the constitution under Gustavus 111.
In person she was not handsome; her figure was below the
middle size, but well formed, and her deportment, and all her
movements, were remarkable for dignity, ease, and freedom.
Her features were rather large and striking in proportion to
her figure, and her whole countenance, singular for its mobility
and vivacity ; her eyes were of a brilliant hazel, quick and
penetrating, her nose aquiline, her mouth too wide, and, when
at rest, not agreeable in its expression ; her smile, however,
was bright and pleasing; and her teeth fine, though she took
little care of them, and in her general dress was extremely
negligent and whimsical. She was temperate, and even
abstemious in eating, apparently quite indifferent to what was
placed before her.
The eyes of Europe at this period were fixed on this singular
woman with interest, admiration, and astonishment. She was,
in fact, the only sovereign of that time who was invested with
anything like personal greatness. Mazarin governed France
during the minority of Louis XIV.; Olivarez governed Spain
in the name of Philip IV.; Cromwell ruled England in his
own name; the Emperor of Germany, Ferdinand 11., was


almost imbecile ; Christina alone maintained the regal dignity
in her own person. Her first actions, private and public, were
Wise and beneficent. She added to her fleet, made excellent
commercial regulations, and founded various learned in-
stitutions.
In the meantime the war with Denmark proceeded, and the
Swedish troops gained signal advantages under Torstenson.
She had, however, sufficient sense to perceive that peace had
become necessary to her kingdom, and accordingly concluded
a treaty with Denmark on very advantageous terms.
Historians cannot deny her the true glory, so becoming to
her sex and to her age, of having also contributed mainly to
the grand general pacification of Europe, which put an end to
the Thirty Years' War, and which is called in history the
Peace of Westphalia.” After many delays and difficulties,
and calling forth all the talent and diplomatic subtlety of the
greatest statesmen in Europe, the peace was at length signed
in 1649. At the time that England was convulsed by civil
wars, and France distracted by factions, as sanguinary as they
were inglorious, that Germany lay desolate, and Spain was
humbled a young queen of three and twenty dictated from
her little kingdom terms to all Europe, and, stretching forth
her sceptre, commanded peace.
Peace being concluded, the states-general entreated Chris-
tina to acquiesce in the wishes of her people, and secure the
tranquility of the country, by giving them a king, but her
reply only shewed how deep-rooted was her disgust at the
a herself a master, or even a partner in power.
When they pressed upon her the expediency of marrying, in
order to ensure an heir to the crown, she answered,
II pourrait aussi facilement maitre de moi un Neron qu’un
Auguste. Unreasonable as this conduct may seem, Chris-
tina in this one instance maintained her consistency, so much
more honest and respectable than the continual trifling and
absurd coquetry of our own Queen Elizabeth.
After the year 1648, we find Christina almost entirely
devoted to study and literature, even to the exclusion of the
duties and cares of government. She carried on a diligent
correspondence with many of the most eminent literati of
Europe, and was surrounded by learned men, soi disant philo-
sophers, and professors in every branch of science.
The style of learning and philosophy which prevailed in
Ehristma’s court seems to have been precisely that which
ldohere has so happily ridiculed in the “ femmes savantes,”
and which is now out of date—a mixture of scholastic pedantry
and elaborate trifling. The want of judgment which Christina
displayed in the choice of some of her literary favourites, her
capricious treatment of others,* the immense sums she lavished
on them, their mutual hatred and envy, and their disputes,
instead of introducing among the Swedes any taste or re-
verence for literature, tended to degrade it in their eyes, dis-
sipated the treasures of the state, and lowered Christina both
in their estimation and love.
It was in the year 1651 that Christina began to entertain
seriously the idea of resigning her crown, which, after several
years of inexplicable extravagance, she consummated by for-
mally tendering her resignation on the 21st of May, 1654, in
a solemn assemblage of the states-general at Upsal.
After stipulating for a fixed revenue and freedom from all
human control, she departed from Upsal, and began her
journey southwards.
It was not without reason that she hastened to quit her
own kingdom after the step she had taken. The good people
of Sweden could not well understand their Queen’s pre-
dilection for philosophy; they were so unrefined as to see in
ier renunciation of her hereditary throne only the abandon-
ment of great and solemn duties; and in her preference of
oreigners, foreign countries, foreign manners—an insult to
themselves-—a want of feeling as well as a want of patriotism,
me idea that she was conveying out of the kingdom immense
property, purchased with the gold which had been wrung
trom the poor, completed their disgust and indignation ; and
it is certain that there were serious intentions of arresting her
before she quitted the kingdom, and forcing her either to
resume her crown, and reside in her own country, or to give
up the pension, and the royal treasures she was carrying away.
V!f subsequent life of this extraordinary'woman “proves
that the education which had rendered her bold, restless, and
self-willed, while it inculcated no principle of duty, as little
fitted her to play the part of an individual, as to discharge the
office of a sovereign.
On the death of her cousin, Charles Gnstavus, to whom she
had resigned her crown, she attempted to possess herself of
her original dignity, but was strongly repulsed, and compelled
to renounce all claim upon the crown, and to leave the
kingdom.
It is impossible to detail all the particulars of her resi-
at Brussels, where she embraced the Roman Catholic reli-
gion ; at Paris, where she astonished this polished people by
her strangeness of conduct; and at Rome, where she was
engaged in continual disputes with the Pope, Alexander VII.,
from whom, however, and from his successor, she received
a yearly pension.
Christina, at last in despair of finding a quiet refuge, was
now meditating a retreat from Rome, and had some hopes of
erecting for herself an independent principality in Germany.
She had already entered into some negotiations on this sub-
ject, when all her projects, and all her vexations, were
terminated by death, and her restless spirit found repose in
the tomb. She was seized with a malignant fever, of which
she died, on the 19th of April, ICB9, having just completed
her sixty-third year. She was interred, with the utmost pomp,
in the Church of St. Peter, the Pope himself officiating.
The property which Christina left behind her is estimated
at about £500,000. She left several literary works in manu-
script. Her collection of works of art was immense, and
many of her splendid pictures now adorn the various English
collections.
When Michael Dahl, a Swedish painter, who was after-
wards in the service of William 111., visited Rome, he was
employed to paint a portrait of Christina. One day, while
sitting to him, she asked him what he intended to put in her
hand? “A fan, please your Majesty.” “A fan!” ex-
claimed Christina, starting up, with a tremendous oath,
“ A fan ! —a lion, man ! a lipn is fitter for the Queen of
Sweden.”
To attempt to recount all her monstrous inconsistencies of
conduct and character, were a vain task ; at one time frank,
even to audacity ; at another, dissembling, from the meanest
motives; at one time magnanimous and benevolent; at
another, revengeful as a fury, and cruel as a tigress : now we
behold her as one
“To whose daring spirit
To touch the stars had seemed an easy flight
and anon, we see her crawling at the foot of that petty throne
which her great father had nearly crumbled to the dust !
Philosophy in her mouth, folly in her head, and pride in her
heart, to what purpose were all her talents, her intellectual
powers, her acquired knowledge? Unsustained by moral
dignity, unenlightened by true religion, unwarmed by any
generous principle or tender affection, her mind resembled a
chaos, in which the elements of greatness and goodness were
mixed up confusedly, with every perverse ingredient that ever
entered into the composition of man or woman.
She; made Naude and Meibom, two famous Greek scholars,
execute a Greek dance for her amusement; and Bochart, one
or the gravest and most profound scholars of the time, play
with her at battledore and shuttlecock.
PERSONS WHO HAVE “GOT A SPIRIT.”
[From “ Persons whom Everybody has seen.”]
It often happens that the man who has got a spirit,
resembles the boy who has got his first shirt-collar—<
he is continually plucking it up. He thinks himself
bound to display it, and it is of a quality so retiring,
that if he should fail to pluck it up it would never be
seen at all.
Life is hard wor,k with him ; for demands upon
him to “ show his spirit” are constantly occurring,
and it has to be plucked up first. But his enjoyment
is in proportion to his labour, for he is perfectly
satisfied that he is ever and anon performing some-
thing heroic.
Thus after a long twelvemonth’s toil at the forge
or the desk—the poor man grinding his heart daily
into sand for the old hour-glass— pent-up, smoke-
dried, choked, bent double—aching in every bonet
and sick at the very soul—sentenced by the law of
birth to perpetual imprisonment with hard labour—
of a sudden a great resolution springs up in his mind,


he conceives the great idea of a holiday,, and going to
Gravesend hi/ steam! He plucks up a spirit, and
puts down eighteen-pence.
Or, worse still ; perhaps the bitterest ingre-
dient in the cup of destiny is that sweet cieattue,
a wife. He loves, honors, and obeys her; he is
allowed to drink nothing hut tea, and that always
with her ; he never presumes to go out without
permission, stating always where he is going, and
when he shall be back ; he never so much as looks at
another woman, except by his wife s direction, to
notice some ugliness of feature, aw'kwardness of mannei,
or heresy in dress, which he invariably detects, whether
it be observable by other eyes or not - , when, in the
very midst of the nag-nagging which is supposed to
be sometimes the reward of such virtue, he starts into
open rebellion, seizes his hat at ten o’clock at night,
and returns home next day at dinner time “ much
bemused with beer;” yet not so, for he had plucked
up a “ sperrit,” as he calls it, and ordered strong ale.
The rich relation from whom he anticipates a fat
legacy, one day screwed up the daily-affront-pipe to
a pitch beyond mortal endurance. “ Now is the
time,” said outraged forbearance, “ now is the time
for me to pluck up a spirit !” And forth he went,
spirit and all, to buy a barrel of oysters to send to the
fat legacy-leaver ; with some capital H.B.’s just out.
It is reported, moreover,,that having always voted
on one side, in the borough he resides in, the other
side at length offered him a bribe ; upon which he
immediately plucked up a spirit—and took it.
When he started in life, he started with spirit ; that
is to say, having no money, he borrowed a large sum,
and speculated with it. When he lost it, there were
plenty of people to come forward with supplies ena-
bling him to renew the game, because he had specu-
lated in such a spirited manner ; and afterwards when
he failed, every body said that he had failed with
spirit. He set up a phaeton and pair, because the
man next door set up a horse and gig—for it was not
in his spirit to be eclipsed by a next door neighbour ;
and when his business fell off to nothing, he purchased
the said next house without money, and two others
next to that on the same terms, throwing them all into
one, and decorating them at the expence of several
obsequious and extremely grateful tradesmen, who
ahvayslike to see things done wuth spirit.
The phrases most frequently in his mouth are,
“ Thank Heaven, I’ve got a spirit!” “My spirit
would never allow me to give way !” You may
easily know him by such exclamations. Poor fellow !
he is its slave, believing himself its master.
If he should gamble aw r ay his children’s bread, or
steal the very wife out of his friend’s bosom, he must
not be denounced as the incarnation of treachery and
wickedness. He has no hatred for his offspring, no
love for the lady ; but he moved in a certain society
that required him to act with spirit.
Deduct from the huge sum-total of mischief and
misery in the world, the amount fairly chargeable to
the principle of acting with “ spirit” whether between
nations, between classes,’ between man and man, or
man and wife, and at the end of a single twelve-
month you would accumulate a stock of original sin
and suffering, large enough to set up a new world
twice the size of this.
History.
PLAN OF THE COURSE.
[From “ Tytler’s Elements of General History.”]
Two opposite methods have been followed in giving
academical lectures on the study of History ; the one
exhibiting a strict chronological arrangement of
events, on the plan of Turselline s Epitome ; the
other, a series of disquisitions on the various heads or
titles’of public law, and the doctrines of politics;
illustrated by examples drawn from ancient and
modern history. Both these methods are liable to
objection: the former furnishes only a dry chronicle
of events, which nothing connects together but the
order of time; the latter is insufficient for the most
important purposes of history, the tracing events to
their causes, the detection of the springs of human
actions, the display of the progress of society, and of
the rise and fall of states and empires finally, by
I confining history to the exemplification of the doctrines
of politics, we lose its effects as a school of morals.
In the following lectures, we hold a middle course
between these two extremes, and endeavour, by re-
medying the imperfection of each, to unite, il possible,
the advantages of both.
While so much regard is had to chronology as is
necessary for shewing the progress of mankind in
society, and communicating just ideas of the state of
the world in all the different ages to which authentic
history extends, we shall, in the delineation of the
rise and fall of empires, and their revolutions, pay
more attention to the connexion of subject than that
of time.
In this view, we must reject the common method of
arranging general history according to epochs, or
eras. When the world is viewed at any period,
either of ancient or of modern history, we generally
observe one nation or empire predominant, to whom
all the rest bears, as it were, an under part, and to
whose history we find that the principal events in the
annals of other nations may be referred from some
natural connexion. This predominant empire or
state it is proposed to exhibit to view as the principal
object, whose history therefore is to be more fully
delineated, while the rest are only incidentally
touched upon when they come to have a natural con-
nexion with the principal.
The Jewish history, belonging to a different depart-
ment of academical education, enters not into the
plan of these lectures ; though we often resort to the
Sacred writings for detached facts illustrative of
the manners of ancient nations.
In the ancient world, among the profane nations,
the Greeks are the earliest people who make a dis-
tinguished figure, and whose history is at the same
time authentic.
The Greeks owed their civilization to the Egyptians
and Phoenicians. The Grecian history is therefore
properly introduced by a short account of these
nations, and of the Assyrians, their rivals, conquered
at one time by the Egyptians, and conquerors after-
wards of them in their turn.
Rise of the independent states of Greece, and
singular constitution of the two great republics of
Sparta and Athens.
The war of Greece with Persia induces a short
account of the preceding periods of the history of that


nation, the rise of the Persian monarchy, the nature
of its government, manners, and religion.
The Grecian history is pursued through all the
revolutions of the nation, till Greece becomes a pro-
vince of the Roman Empire.
Political reflections applicable to the history of the
states' of Greece. —Progress of the Greeks in the arts.
—Of the Greek poets, historians, philosophers.—
Rome, after the conquest of Greece, becomes the
leading object of attention.
Origin of the Romans. —Nature of their government
under the kings.—Easy substitution of the consular
for the regal dignity.—Subsequent changes in the
constitution. —Progress to a democracy. —Extension
of the Roman arms. —Conquest of Italy.—War wdth
foreign nations.
The u arm»— ■■ wars open a collateral view of the
''’"history of Carthage and of Sicily.
Success of the Roman arms in Asia, Macedonia,
and Greece. — Opulence of the republic from her
conquests, and corruption of her manners. —The civil
Avars, and ruin of the commonwealth.
Particulars Avhich mark the genius and national
spirit of the Romans: education laivs literary
character—art of Avar —public and private manners.
Rome under the emperors :—artful policy by which
the first emperors disguised their absolute authority
—decline of the ambitious character of the Romans
—easy submission to the loss of civil liberty—the
military spirit purposely abased by the emperors—
the empire divided becomes a lanquid body Avithout
internal vigour—the Gothic nations pour down from
the North —Italy conquered successively by the
Heruli, Ostrogoths, and Lombards —extinction of the
Western Empire.
The manners, genius, laws, and government of the
Gothic nations, form an important object of inquiry,
from their influence on the manners and policy of
the modern European kingdoms.
N.B. The author’s plan of the course of modern history
will be given in its appropriate place.
The chronology observed in this vieiv of Universal
History, is that of Archbishop Usher, which is founded
on the HebreAV text of the Sacred writings ; and this
because it has been most generally adopted by the
Avriters both of our own and foreign nations.
SIR HURRY SKURRY.
[A Character, from the “ New Monthly.”
Sir Hurry Skurry has for many years of his life
been running after his business without ever yet over-
taking it ; somehow or other, he allowed it to get a
week’s start of him, and it has kept it. He is not a
willing procrastinator, neither is he indolent or idle;
he is, on the contrary, so unceasingly busied that he
can scarcely afford himself time to do anything. To
his friends, and to others concerned with him, the in-
conveniences resulting from the hopeless chase in
w 7 hich he is engaged seldom assume a more formidable
shape than that of slight and temporary vexation:
against any serious cause of dissatisfaction they have
a safeguard in his known and unquestionable inte-
grity ; but for himself ! restless anxiety, and toil
which will admit of no respite, are his portion.—
Would he attempt less he might accomplish more, you
will tell him : he will eagerly seize the hint, and
promise to consider it at his first leisure opportunity.
A little more of order and method in his arrangements
might soon bring him abreast with, if not in advance
of, his affairs: he will acknowledge that that is the
very course he must pursue—when he can find time
to pursue it. Do one thing at a time, and think of
nothing else till you have done it •. that he will admit
to be excellent advice ; if he could but get a single
half-hour to himself he would act upon it at once ;
but, at present, he is so busy that, really, he has not
time to do any one thing.
The other morning I paid Sir Hurry a visit. “Is
your master at home, Ridgway V’ said I to his valet.
“ Yes, Sir,” replied the man, “ my master is at
home, but he very busy. Besides, Sir, the carriage
is at the door, as you see, waiting to take him into
the city on some very particular business. Indeed,
Sir, my master is so very busy that, though the car-
riage has been here these three hours—ever since ten
o’clock—he has not been able to go out yet.”
“ Then I will take some other opportunity of call-
ing,” said I.
“ But, Sir,” continued the servant, interrupting me
as I was descending the steps, “ you had better allow
me to let Sir Hurry know you are here. lam sure
he will be glad to see you for a minute or so although
he is so busy.”
I was ushered into the library, where I found Sir
Hurry Skurry (like Solomon) in all his glory. In
each corner of the room, which is spacious, Avas a
large square table ; in the centre of it was a large
circular one; and in other parts were three or four
tables of smaller dimensions : all these, together with
the sofas, settees, and many of the chairs, were laden
with books, papers, and letters—some of the latter two
in piles, some tied up in bundles, some (and by far
the greater number) scattered loosely about. Sir
Hurry was drest partly for going out—that is to say,
he had on his waistcoat and trowsers, and one boot —
and, partly, for staying at home, for he had on
one slipper and his dressing-gown. His chin was
covered with lather, in his right hand was a razor,
and his left a piece of toast. From the steamless and
silent urn, it was easy to infer that his breakfast had
been served long ago, and had grown cold. When I
entered the room, Sir Hurry was walking rapidly
about, first to one table, then to another, looking at
the confused mass that lay upon each ; and, from
time to time, casting his eyes upwards to the ceiling,
and raising his hands, (furnished as I have said) in
an agony of despair, as it were, above his head. Sir
Hurry opened the conversation ; which I must pre-
mise by observing that he is generally so busy as
rarely to be able to spare himself time to complete a
sentence. On seeing me he exclaimed—“ Ha ! I’m
glad to—really I’m so busy I've hardly time to say
how d’ye—but, never mind ; sit down just for a
minute. How I shall get through all this I really
don’t ”
“ Then, Sir Hurry, I’ll come and see you some
other day.”
“ Yes—no sit down just for a—everything a
whole week behind-hand —I’m certain it would drive
me out of my mind if I had time to—but, really, I
am so busy that I hav’nt time to think about that.
But sit down and —yes —well—”
“ Then shave, or take your breakfast, and I may
talk to you the while, without interrupting your oc-
cupation.”


Sir Hurry took a seat at the breakfast table, and I
followed his example.
Yes—breakfast—l assure you that ever since
nine o’clock this morning—well, I must, really—but
when I look at that mass of—breakfast—l must.”
Here he raised his right hand which happened to
be the wrong one for the occasion ; for certain I am
that but for my timely interference the razor would
have gone into his mouth instead of the toast.
Do one thing at a time, Sir Hurry: you had bet-
ter first shave yourself.”
“ Now i L 'st look there at what I tove to do, and
then tell me whether— yes —I’ll shave, and then—”
Here, with a corner of his napkin, he wiped the
lather from his chin and proceeded.
“f he tea stone-cold, I declare! Now, really,
this is too the discomfort, the—l do assure you my
time is so taken up that 1 can’t even—well, it will
n£ ver be otherwise till—yes, seriously, I must endea-
vour to find time to do that.”
“ To do what ?”
“What you suggested to.me-yes, I perceive its
expediency—and, really, now, I will set apart an
hour to turn it over in my mind. ‘Do one thing at
a time —yes, that must be my plan as soon as I can
find time for it. But if you did but know—it is so
I assure you Well—breakfast—that must be—but
if 1 could explain to you how I am worried by all
Here he took up his shaving-brush, and, having re-
lathered one side of his face, put it down again, and
went to a table on which lay a heap of open letters.
“ Now, see here; two-and-thirty letters to answer’
—some of them more than a week. Now, how in
the name of goodness ! am I to Ymd time even to—it
is enough to drive one out of one’s—two-and-thirty !
and which of them to answer first I really don’t yes,
it is so, I assure you.” J
Ihen answer the first that may happen to be before
you, then the next, and so on : that plan will, at
least, relieve you from the perplexities of indecision.”
Well, really, I think if I were to—yes, that is
the plan I must adopt the very moment I return from
But when I can spare time to get there is more
than I can tell, for you can form no notion of the
quantity of things— yes, it is so, I assure you.”
Ihe very moment you return from !’—from
where? and where is it you purpose going ?”
that sit by-the-bye, I have not told you
about that.” (Once more he wiped the soapy side of
his face and resumed his seat.) “It is a step lam
advised to take my oldest and best friends assure me
there is nothing in the world so likely to—yes, lam
satisfied on that point •. it will be greatly to my ad-
vantage. But, only think !itis a hundred and thirty
miles from town, and even if I could fly there, the
time it would take to Then, look here !” (He
rose and went to another table.) “ I have not yet
had time to read over the settlements see ! eleven
sKins !—not even looked at them—how is it possible
I should, when there is such a mass of other things
to ■ And then, again, four letters this very week
on the subject from her father, Sir Hildebrand
Spriggs yes, they must be answered. Excuse me for
five minutes ; 111 write to him at once. Now where
are these letters ? Not here—nor here —bless my
soul ! nor here. How is it possible to find them
pmidst this appalling accumulation of—lt will drive
me out of my yes, I know it will. Oh, stop —no
yes, I’ll dress and go into the city before I do any
Now, Ridgway, what is it you come, quick,
quick, tell me—you see how busy well, what
is it?”
This was addressed to his servant, who came to
enquire whether Sir Hurry had any orders to give
about dinner.
“ Dinner ! now, really, I declare to goodness this
is enough to— you see how lam pressed for time,
and yet you —look at those tables, look at these heaps
of— how am Ito spare a moment to think about—
yes,mutton-chops, mutton-chops—anything—lhardly
know which way to turn, and yet you —never mind,
go ; I shall have no time to eat any dinner to-day—
positively, it is enough to — yes, it is indeed.”
I believe you know the carriage is waiting, Sir,”
said the man.
“ There, now —it is enough to provoke a — where
is the use of detaining—l have ten thousand things to
do at home this morning, so how is it possible for me
to think of going into the— I declare to goodness it
is already two o’ call me at five to* morrow
morning, and let the carriage be at the door at six,
and— I shall never get through what I have to —
yes, go.”
“ I am confident, Sir Hurry,” said I, “ that every
thing you have to do you may accomplish with, com-
paratively little trouble to yourself, and no uneasi-
ness, provided you will adopt a plan which I shall
take the liberty of suggesting to you.”
“ Yes—well, now—quick, for really, I—”
“ Well, then : throw all these papers into a wag-
gon, and send them down to your quiet house in the
country ; do you follow them instanier. Then,
quietly and leisurely —no hurry, no bustle, remem-
ber—but leisurely put them in order ; diminishing
the quantity, as much as you can, by throwing aside
all such as have no positive claim to your attention.
Allow nothing, nothing whatever, to divert you from
this portion of your task till it be accomplished.—
Then, quietly, take up one of the number—any one,
but remember ! only one at a time, forgetting, if
possible, that there is any other one upon earth—and
quietly do with it what is requisite to be done ; then,
quietly, take another, and another, and another. I
will allow you ten, nay, if you chose, twelve hours
daily for work, and six or seven for rest ; but I shall
insist upon your devoting the remainder to recreation.
This plan, rigidly followed to the end, will soon
bring you side by side w r ith your affairs. Never
allow them to get the start of you again, and I would
bet your fortune again mine—long odds, Sir Harry—
that you will have a few hours at your disposal every
day for the rest of your life, even though your busi-
ness should be doubled.”
“ Well—yes, that’s true—but recreation—no—
how can I spare time for—no, to be sure.”
“ Recreation ! Of all the conditions that is the
one indispensable. Occasional relaxation is requi-
site, in order to restore the spring and elasticity of
your mind, which are naturally diminished by being
constantly on the stretch. Thus, it is no paradox to
say, that if you do more you must do less.”
“ Yes ; I see—that’s true : Well, really I must do
it—yes—but I can’t. I have sold my place in the
country for, really, I have so much to do, that I never
could spare time to go dovrn there. Now. do but


look at those frightful heaps of papers, and then tell
me how, in the name of goodness—yes—it is out of
the question.”
“ Then go down to your friend Sir Hildebrand
Spriggs’.”
“ Sir Hildebrand Spriggs—Yes, I forgot to tell
you—l am engaged to marry his daughter—-but just
look about this room—really I can’t find an hour’s
leisure to—yes ;believe me that so it is.”
“ Marry, marry, by all means, Sir Hurry; and
with a pretty wife, and half-a-dozen pretty children
about you, you will be the happiest man alive.”
“ Yes, I see—children—that would be delightful ;
but I never shall find time to—yes, it is the fact, I
assure you.”
“ I find you are incorrigible ; so I shall wish you
good morning, and leave you to go on in your own
way.”
II y a un dieu pour les ivrognes , saith the French
proverb ; which means—or is intended to mean—a
tipsy bricklayer will fall from a scaffolding thirty
feet high, and rise from the pavement unhurt ; whilst
a sober gentleman will break his leg in merely step-
ping out of his carriage. So would there seem to be
some good genius watching over the affairs of Sir
Hurry Skurry: for whatever there be to do is suc-
cessfully done in the end—and this, too, in spite of
his own unremitting and paralyzing anxiety to do it.
The Last of the Stuarts. —This most wonderful
character still lives at Tweedmouth. He completed
his 115th year at Christmas, 1843. His father, Ge-
neral John Stuart, was a cousin of “ Prince Charlie”
the Pretender. His grandmother was the lady of
Airlie, well known in old Scotch song. James
Stuart saw those memorable battles, during the rebel-
lion in 1745, Prestonpans and Culloden, and has
spoken to, and had wine with, the Pretender. He
seived on the side of the Royalists in the American
war, and was at the battle of Quebec, where General
Wolfe lost his life at the moment of victory. He
served on board a man-of-war for many years under
those naval heroes, Admiral Rodney and Rear Ad-
miral Hood. He has been five times- married, and
now lives with his fifth wife, seventy-five years
younger than himself. He has had by his several
wives twenty-seven children—ten of them have been
killed in battle—five of them in India, two at Tra-
falgar under Nelson, one at Waterloo, and two at
Algiers. For nearly sixty years he has travelled in
the Border districts as a wandering minstrel, playing
on a fiddle ; but he never asked alms from any one.
Hundreds of persons can bear testimony to his amaz-
ing strength, from which circumstance he got the
bye-name of “ Jemmy Strength.” Amongst other
teats, he could carry a 24-pounder cannon, and he
has been known to lift a cart-load of hay, weighing
a ton and a-half, upon his back. Many a time he
has taken up a jackass, and walked through the toll-
bar, carrying it on his shoulders. It will be long
before we can look upon his like again ; to hear his
stones of 1745, and his glowing description of the
Young Chevalier.— Perthshire Advertiser.
A fellow who married a termagant, who drove him
to desperation, and finally to death, just before dying,
requested a friend to have the following brief, but
pungent inscription upon his tomb :
“ Slain by a Jaw-bone.”
MUSIC AND PAINTING.
[An Extract.]
Music has been given us, by our bountiful Creator,-
to assist in smoothing the path of human life. The
same Being who has covered the face of nature with
bright and beautiful colours, has filled the air with
sweet and expressive sounds. He has taught us to
listen to the melody of the birds, the sighs of the
passing breeze, and the accents of the human voice,
with feelings akin to those with which we gaze on
the glorious heavens, the verdure of the woods, and
the meadows enamelled with a thousand flowers.
And he has taught us, too, to make our sense of the
beauties of nature, derived from the eye and the ear,
the foundation of two exquisite arts, by which not
only our perception of beauties is quickened and
enhanced, but our intellectual and moral qualities
are called into action. Painting and music perform
much higher parts than that of merely ministering to
human pleasure. They are great and moral agents,
and (according as they are used and abused) powerful
instruments of good or ill. Painting has been too
successfully prostituted to purposes of grossness and
depravity ; but a mind must be gross indeed that is
incapable of deriving purity and elevation from the
divine conceptions of Raphael, and hopelessly de-
praved to be unable to profit by the fearful warnings
of Hogarth. As a moral agent, however, the influence
of music is more powerful than that of painting.
How beautifully does Milton describe the effect of
sacred music in exalting religious feeling !
“ But let my due feet never fail
To walk the cloister’s studious pale,
And love the high embower’d roof,
With antique pillars massy proof,
And storied windows richly dight,
Shedding a dim religious light.
There let the pealing organ blow
To the full-voiced choir below,
In service high and anthem clear,
As may with sweetness through mine ear,
Dissolve me into ecstacies,
And bring all Heaven before mine eyes.”
The highest and noblest musical compositions—even
if we consider them merely the productions of art—
are those consecrated to the service of religion. They
are the works of those who have reached the very
summit of excellence—of those in whose bosoms the
fire of genius has burned with the most transcendent
brightness. It is impossible to be conversant with
such works, without being in some degree imbued
with the spirit which gave them birth. There are
persons who affect to despise the moral and religious
influence of music, and tell us that people resort to
our churches to hear the Messiah for the same reason
that they go to the theatre to see Macbeth or Othello
that is, for the sake of amusement. Granted that
they go with that view, is amusement all they obtain?
Even from Macbeth or Othello much moral good may
be drawn ; and much more might be drawn, were it
not for the sources of evil, contained, not in those
matchless pieces themselves, but in the places where
they are represented. Our very churches, even when
employed in the rites of religion, are sometimes
resorted to for unhallowed sport. -But “ fools, that
come to scoff, remain to pray and something
similar I believe to be the case with many who go to
iieai the Messiah of Handel. With whatever levity
of spirit they may enter the church, few leave it


without feeling themselves, for the time at least, both
“ sadder and wiser.” Look at the altered demeanour
of the departing audience. Observe the slow step,
the suppressed speech, the stillness of feature which
indicates the subsidence of strong emotions ; and then
judge whether persons bearing marks of so subdued a
spirit have been engaged in a mere amusement.
Music may sometimes be the handmaid of intempe-
rance ; but this music never can. Bacchanalian
songs and glees may heighten the riot of a dissolute
party ; but that man must be profligate beyond con-
ception, whose mind can entertain gross propensities,
while the words of inspiration, clothed with the
sounds of Handel, are in his ears.
Review.
The Australian Classical Text Book: —Containing the first two
hooks of Eutropius' Roman History, with select Biographies
from Cornelius Nepos, and Extracts from Ovid, adapted for the
use of the Australian Scholar; with notes and examination-
questions, compiled by T. H. Braim, Esquire, of St, John's
College, Cambridge, and Head-Master of the Sydney College,
1814. Price, Two Shillmgs.
Following the example of the great English scholastic foun-
dations, the talented Principal of the Sydney College has
here commenced a series of elementary Class-books which
cannot fail to be received with approbation, and serve justly
to raise the character of the Institution over which he presides.
The selection has been made with care, and the notes are very
comprehensive and explanatory. We think we are not mis-
taken in welcoming this little work as the first classical school-
book published in the Colony.
It is frequently the case that parents murmur at the expence
incurred for their children’s school-books : much expence is
here saved to them by this condensed compilation, and much
inconvenience to the scholars is avoided by the certainty
hereby secured of a similarity of edition. The contrary —
when boys in the same class have perhaps each a different
edition of the same book —is productive of considerable trouble
to both scholar and master.
The peculiar feature of this little work, however, we consider
to be the examination questions. The scholar, thereby, in
addition to the usual routine of “ scan—parse —and prove,” is
subjected to searching enquiries which must fully ascertain his
knowledge of the geography and history of the several places,
persons, and events, mentioned in the author he may be trans-
lating. This, we consider to be a great, if not an original,
improvement in works of this nature.
This text-book is accurately printed in a neat clear type,
and does great credit to both printer and editor. We trust
that Mr. Braim will meet with sufficient encouragement to
induce him not only to publish (as he gives us to expect) an
elementary work for beginners, but also to continue a series of
these useful text-books both of Latin and Greek authors,
which task he seems so well able to accomplish with judgment.
Varieties.
Anecdote —The word anecdote, which comes from the
Greek, describes, in its proper signification, any thing not yet
given forth. The Greeks were so strict in the use of this, as
of ali other words, that they called an unmarried lady an
anecdote. Without wasting any superfluous space on the
history of the word, we may observe at once that an anecdote,
according to modern usage, means something very nearly the
reverse of what it originally meant. An anecdote with us, is
not an anecdote, unless it be spread abroad, or unless it be
worth telling in print as well as in private. Nobody thinks of
keeping an anecdote to himself, and by tacit agreement, those
stories of individual biography —those scraps of wit and scan •
dal, eccentricity and glory, usually find their way, by some
means before the public, until they become common property,
Synonymous. —Says Tom to Joe, “ I’ve my
servant.” “ Discharged you meant to have said,” remarked
Joe. “No, sir; there is no difference between the terms—
they are synonymous.” “ Well, then,” added Joe, “ I’ll just
dismiss that small debt I owe you, and call it discharged.”
“ Be collected,” as a tradesman said to a huge pile of unpaid
bills scattered over the desk.
The Chinese have a notion that the soul of a poet passes
into a grasshopper, because it sings ’till it starves.
Men and Gentlemen, Women and Ladies. —The New
Orleans Herald makes the following singular distinctions
among these several classes of society:—“ Men are quarried
from the living rock as with a thunderbolt. Gentlemen are
moulded as the potter’s clay by the dainty fingers of fashion.
Women are the spontaneous growth of a warm, rich soil, where
the wind blows freely, and the heart feels the visiting of God’s
ever changeable weather. Ladies are the offspring of a hot-
bed, the growth of a green-house, tended and watched, lest the
winds of heaven may visit their faces too roughly, till they are
good for nothing as women, at any rate for wives or mothers.”
Aphorisms and Reflections. —As coke is to the steam
engine, so is mutton to genius. Life is a railway, and the
cook a stoker.—The sandwich ham, although something
between bread and butter, yet partaketh of the properties of
neither. —Is is well observed by a Cambridge man, that the
Wall’s End coal too often burns like bricks—She who hath an
antipathy to lobster-salad, who cannot eat ices, who dislikes
wine in general, but especially champagne ; she to whom plain
stuff and satin are equal, who objects to feathers, and consi-
ders jewellery unbecoming; who prefers the leg of a fowl to
the wing, and a mutton-chop to either; who has no relish for
plays, concerts, balls, parties, or any kind of diversion whatever;
and whose favourite occupations are mending her husband’s
things and cooking his victuals is the woman for a wife ! —•
The medical student who wears high lows instead of Wel-
lingtons, Berlin gloves instead of kid, gets his clothes made at
home, dines for eighteen pence at an eatinghouse, drinks no
beer or spirits, smokes no cigars, never rides in cabs or
omnibuses, and asks no friends to sup at his rooms, —must be
a great comfort to his parents. — Punch.
Woman. —There is a beauty in the helplessness of woman.
The clinging trust which searches for extraneous support is
graceful and touching—timidity is the attribute of her sex ; but
to herself it is not without its dangers, its inconveniences, and its
sufferings. Her first effort at comparative freedom is bitter
enough; for the delicate mind shrinks from every unaccustomed
contact, and the warm and gushing heart closes itself, like the
blossom of the sensitive plant, at every approach. Man may at
once determine his position, and assert his place; woman has
hers to seek — and alas! I fear me, that however she may ap-
pear to turn a calm brow and a quiet lip to the crowd through
which she makes her way, that brow throbs, and that lip quivers
to the last; until, like a wounded bird, she can once more wing
her way to the tranquil home, where the drooping head will
be fondly raised, and the fluttering heart laid to rest. The "
dependence of women in the common affairs of life is never-
theless, rather the effect of custom than necessity; w T e have
many and brilliant proofs that, where need is, she can be
sufficient to herself, and play her part in the great drama of
existence with credit, if not with comfort. The yearning of
her solitary spirit, the outgushings of her shrinking sensibility,
the cravings of her alienated heart, are indulged only in the
quiet holiness of her solitude. The world sees not, guesses not,
the conflict; and in the ignorance of others lies her strength.
The secret of her weakness is hidden in the depths of her own
bosom; and she moves on, amid the heat ami the hurry of
existence, and with a seal set upon her nature, to be broken
only by fond and loving hands, or dissolved in the tears of
recovered home-affection. — Miss Par doe's River and the Desert.
THE SEVERAL FOUR CARDINALS.*
Points. East, West, North, South.
Nnmbers. One, Two, Three, Four, f
Elements. Air,+ Fire, Earth, Water.
Seasons. Spring, Summer, Autumn, Winter.
Virtues. Justice, Temperance,Fortitude, Prudence.
Graces. Faith, Repentance, Love, Ploliness.
* Cardinals are the hinges (cardo, cardinis,) on which things
turn.
f Some reckon the numbers, one to nine , to be Cardinals,
j Generically and primarily, Four; but, each of these com-
prises several elements.— From, Niblock's Textuary.
A RECEIPT.
A substitute for Milk or Cream. —Beat up the whole
of a fresh egg, and use it either with tea or coffee ; mix it
gradually to prevent it from curdling. 1 It is difficult, from the
taste, to distinguish it from rich cream.


The Moralist.
MODESTY.
Who art thou, O man ! that presumest on thine own wisdom?
or why dost thou vaunt thyself on thine own acquirements ?
The first step towards being wise, is to know that thou art
ignorant; and if thou wouldst not be esteemed foolish in the
judgment of others, cast off the folly of being wise in thine own
conceit.
As a plain garment best adorneth a beautiful woman, so a
decent behaviour is the greatest ornament of wisdom.
The speech of a modest man giveth lustre to truth, and the
diffidence of his words absolveth his error.
He relieth not on his own wisdom ; he weigheth the councils
of a friend, and receiveth the benefit thereof.
He turneth away his ear from his own praise, and believeth
it not; he is the last in discovering his own perfections.
Yet as a veil addeth to beauty, so are his virtues set off by
the shade which his modesty casteth upon them.
But behold the vain man, and observe the arrogant; he
clotheth himself in rich attire; he walketh l’n the public street;
he casteth round his eyes, and courteth observation.
He tosseth up his head, and overlooketh the poor; he
treateth his inferiors with insolence, and kis superiors in
return look down on his pride and folly with laughter.
He despiseth the judgment of others ; he relieth on his own
opinion and is confounded.
He is puffed up with the vanity of his imagination : his
delight is to hear and to speak of himself all the day long.
He swalloweth with greediness his own praise, and the
flatterer in return eateth him up.
MORAL MAXIMS.
ALPHABETICALLY ARRANGED.
No. 2.
Accusing is proving, where malice and power sit judges.
A chaste eye exiles licentious looks.
A clean glove often hides a dirty hand.
A clear conscience fears no accusation.
A clear conscience is a sure card.
A contented mind is a continual feast.
A courtier’s dependant is a beggar’s dog.
A covetous man is a dog in a wheel, that roasteth meat for
others.
A coward is a bad friend, and a drunkard a poor privy
counsellor.
Acquire honesty : seek humility: practice economy : love
fidelity.
A crack’d bell is never sound.
A crown will not cure the head-ache ; nor a golden slipper,
the gout.
In wonder all philosophy began; in wonder it ends; and
admiration fills up the interspace. But the first wonder is
the offspring of ignorance ; the last is the parent of adoration.
— Coleridge.
The most agreeable of all companions, is a simple, frank
man, without any high pretensions to an oppressive greatness ;
one who loves life, and understands the use of it; obliging
alike at all hours; above all of a good temper, and steadfast as
an anchor. For such a one we gladly exchange the greatest
genius, the most brilliant wit, the profoundest thinker.
Forget ? Aye forget! it is a strange truth ! we do forget.—
The summer passes over the furrow and the corn springs up;
the sod forgets the flower of the past year; the battle field, the
blood that has been spilt upon its turf; the sky, the storm; and
the water, the noonday sun that slept upon its bosom. All
nature preaches forgetfulness—it’s' very order is the progress
of oblivion !
The Wisdom of Contentment.—-I have at length learnt
by my own experience (for not one in twenty profits by the
experience of others ,) that one great source of vexation pro-
ceeds from one indulging too sanguine hopes of enjoyment
from the blessings we expect, and too much indifference
for those we possess. We scorn a thousand sources of satisfac-
tion, which we might have had in the interim, and permit our
comfort to be disturbed, and our time to pass unenjoyed, from
impatience tor some imagined pleasure at a distance, which we
may perhaps never obtain, or which, when obtained, may
change its nature and be no longer pleasure.— More.
Select Poetry.
TO GATHERED ROSES.
[in IMITATION OF HERRICK.]
Sweete floweres ! ye were too fair :
With drooping lids
Among your lieavie morning teares
I found ye.
Faire buds ! I left ye there :
For sorrow bids
Briefe greeting to gay youthe ; it feares
To wounde ye.
But, deare roses—in your noone
That graceful merrie prime—
I stole away the lovelie boone :
And was it not a crime
To rob the wooing aire of your sweet breathe ?
Ah ! daintie floweres,
The wanton houres
Of mid-day’s golden shine,
Will see ye pine
To-morrowe—and so fade away to death !
I’ve marr’d your blisses,
Those sweete kisses,
That the young breeze so loved yesterdaye !
I’ve seen ye sighing,
Now ye’re dying;—
How could I take your prettie lives away ?
Sweete floweres, ye were too faire :
Your beau tie was your bane
(To whom is it a gane ?)
I would I had not founde ye!—
Faire buds ! Dying—ye are
So verie sweete
That of Death’s paine ye do him cheate ;
Ah ! I could die with ye around me.
I. J. T.
A CHILD’S FIRST IMPRESSION OF A STAR.
BY JOHN M'DIARMID
ESQ.]
She had been told that God made all the stars
That twinkled up in Heaven ; and now she stood
Watching the coming of the twilight on,
As if it were a new and perfect world,
And this were its first eve. How beautiful
Must be the work of Nature to a child
In its first impression! Laura stood
By the low window, with the silken lash
Of her soft eye upraised, and her sweet mouth
Half parted, with the new and strange delight
Of beauty that she could not comprehend,
And had not seen before. The purple fold
Of the low sunset clouds, and the blue sky
That looked so still, and delicate above,
Fill’d her young heart with gladness ; and the eve
Stole on with its deep shadows. Laura still
Stood, looking at the west with that half smile,
As if a pleasant thought were at her heart.
Presently in the edge of the last tint
Of sunset, where the blue was melted in
To the faint golden mellowness—a star
Peep’d suddenly. A laugh of wild delight
Burst from her lips, and putting up her hands,
Her simple thoughts broke forth expressively —
“ Father, dear father ! God has made a Star !”
Old ocean was
Infinity of ages ’ere we breathed
Existence, and he will be beautiful
When all the living world that sees him now
Shall roll unconscious dust around the sun.
Quelling, from age to age, the vital throb
In human hearts, Death shall not subjugate
The pulse that swells in his stupendous breast,
Or interdict his minstrelsy to sound
In thundering concert with the quiring winds ;
But long as man to parent Nature owns
Instinctive homage, and in times beyond
The power of thought to reach, bard after bard
Shall sing thy glory—Beatific Sea !
CAMPBELL.


WEEKLY MISCELLANY.
THE LITERARY INSTITUTIONS OF THE
COLONY.
Thursday, July 4, 1844.
It was remarked by a reverend gentleman, at a
meeting held immediately after his arrival, that
nothing had given him greater pleasure than hearing
that New South Wales had its Mechanics’ Institution.
This remark might be applied with equal justice to
every literary institution in the colony. That the
existence of such a society as the School of Arts was
not anticipated, is sufficiently made evident by the
remark ; neither are we at any loss to account for the
surprise and pleasure wnich the knowledge of the fact
occasioned. There are many persons who seem to take
a delight in drawing invidious comparisons between
this colony and the mother-country ; as if it were a
duty devolving upon them, to uphold the one at the
expense of the other. This system of vilifying every
thing colonial, has been carried to a ridiculous extent.
In the present day, we have only to allude in terms
of commendation to any colonial production, and it is
immediately scouted as being unworthy of notice ;
while, at the same time, we are reminded of some
British author, whose transcendent abilities have con-
signed our humble efforts to a merited oblivion. We
verily believe this silly taunt has been thrown in our
teeth on every possible subject; and, although we
have been compelled to acknowledge the fact, it has
caused us not a little pain, seeing that those who have
indulged in such anti-colonial prepossessions, were of
that empty-headed class, whose stupid pertinacity it
were impossible to overcome.
If we cast our glance towards the free and favoured
shores of America, we shall discover that the same
taunt is applicable to that distinguished nation. To
the present day, America has never produced a son
who has not been eclipsed by the genius of Britain ;
and yet, we should imagine, that under free institu-
tions and popular governments, if any where, a
superiority in this respect would have shewn itself.
This somewhat humiliating fact is acknowledged by
Channing, one of their most powerful writers, who
feels, aye, and feels bitterly, the inferiority of his
idolized country to Britain. “ Shall we,” he asks,
“ be nothing but an echo of the aristocracies beyond
the ocean ?” And so far, we may safely answer—
nothing. If Channing, then, thus candidly acknow-
ledges America to be far behind the mother-country
in her literature, we need not blush at being equally
inferior. Even now, there is a spirit of emulation
quickening into life amongst, us, and this is one of the
strongest proofs of our ultimate success. We do not
believe there is a town or province in Europe possess-
ing the same number of inhabitants—leaving out of
consideration altogether the many and great disadvan-
tages under which this colony labours —that can boast
of more extended benefits accruing from literary
institutions, than can we of New South Wales. This
fact speaks volumes for the colony ; it is an earnest
of future celebrity : we hail it as such ; and, in this
respect, we are proud, and not without reason, of
this our adopted country.
With how much malignity do those persons, who
having in this colony through their improvidence or
folly waged war with fortune, dwell upon imaginary
evils—evils which have no existence beyond their
ov\n impenetrable stupidity ; and thus endeavour, by
poisoning the minds of our friends in England, to give
a death blow to our moral and intellectual character
here. This wholesale system of slander has become a
matter of emulation in the mother-country; each
writer striving to out-lie his predecessor. The love
of the marvellous has been gorged to excess ; and
Baron Munchausen must retire to the shade. Burns
shews a vast deal of wisdom in the opening line of
his Dr. Hornbrook, when he says—
“ Seme books are lies frae end to end.”
And we might, without drawing largely upon the
imagination, believe him gifted with prescience, so
admirably has he characterised the majority of works
which have issued from the London press regarding
New South Wales. The insidious poison which ha*s
been thus profusely poured into the minds of those at
home, ought not to remain without an antidote ; for,
in the absence ol refutation, the most monstrous asser-
tions will be adorned with an air of truth. These
calumniators, so far, may be said to have escaped with
impunity. But it is not always to be so. The
colony will soon possess an unanswerable contradic-
tion of such impudent slanders, arising out of the
patronage she extends to her literary institutions :
and, in the mean time, we sincerely trust that heaven
“Will put in every honest hand a whip,
To lash these rascals naked through the world.”
It must be, or at least it ought to be, a matter of
sincere congratulation, that we are enabled to boast
of the support extended to our literary societies. Nor
do we give much heed to those who seem to take a
morbid pleasure in foretelling their speedy downfall.
The Colony has undergone a severe trial, such as,
perhaps, no other dependency of the British Empire
has ever been called upon to pass through. And it is
a fact of which we have every reason to be proud, that
notwithstanding the wild ravages of the tempest, which
have laid in one common ruin the agricultural, pas-
toral, and mercantile interest of the Colony, the
foundations of our literary institutions remain film
and immovable.
The Commercial Reading Rooms, which is the
most youthful of our literary societies, and which
sprung from the dying embers of the Drapers’ associa-
tion, would, if the benefits it professes to confer w-ere
more ample and extended, prove of great importance
to the intellectual advancement of the Colony. The
periodicals which adorn its tables even now, compris-
ing as they do the most talented of which Britain can
boast, is in itself an invaluable feature of the society.
It affords a retreat for our youth from the snares of
dissipation ; and if this w r ere its only advantage we
should allow it did much. But the information con-
tained in these wmrks, it is but natural to suppose,
must have a powerful effect in moulding the mind ;
alluring it from the vain, evanescent, and unsatisfac-
tory pleasures of sensuality, and fastening its powers
upon more endurable and dignified occupations.—
Could a more punctual receipt of the newspapers of
Britain be secured, (and we are not aware of any
obstacle to such a consummation,) the benefits result"
ing from the society w r ould be still more extended,
and the means placed at its disposal more ample.—
The mercantile interest w r ould undoubtedly be benc-
fitted by such an arrangement ; and large numbers of


that highly respectable and influential body would,
for the purpose of deriving those benefits, become
patronizers of the institution.
The library in connexion with the society (if it be
not considered an anomaly to call it a library) is
meagre in the extreme' The “ beggarly account” of
books of whieh it is possessed, is a great draw-back
to its usefulness and its prosperity ; and it is, therefore,
with unfeigned pleasure we hear of the intended aug-
mentation. If this society be properly conducted it
cannot but be successful ; and entertaining as we do
the highest opinion of the committee, we are extremely
sanguine of its future prosperity. * * *
( To be continued.)
ON THE PROSPECTS AND RESOURCES OF
THE COLONY.
[From a Correspondent.]
The great mass of the population of this vast and
increasingly-fruitful country, has been so taken up
with speculations and schemes for agricultural profit,
that they have, until now, never thought of availing
themselves of its natural produce in the manufacture
of drugs, dyes, &c. One practical chemist has, at
length, come forward, and we trust that the results of
his increasing experience may prove a stimulus to
others in whom this practical knowledge lies in embryo,
awaiting an encouraging call. Induced by this
the writer of the ensuing lines puts forth, in common
language, and words ungarnished by technicalities,
the first and simplest rudiments of the noble science
of Chemistry.
Chemistry is a word of Greek origin, and signifies
secret. The science of chemistry is the knowledge of
material substances, the properties they possess, the
effects produced by the union of one substance with
another, and the laws of nature by which that union
is brought about. Our first English chemical philo-
sophers were Bacon, Boyle, and Newton. Chemistry
discovers to us that there are certain laws in nature,
and that these laws never vary. It shows the agri-
culturist what will afford a proper nourishment for
his land, what kind of roots will best draw r up its
nutritious juices, and whether the nature of his portion
of land will absorb and retain sufficient water to pro-
duce an increasing vegetation. Chemistry also points
out and directs the operations made upon every metal,
from the moment of its extraction from the earth,'
until it is put into our hands either as a useful tool or
an elegant ornament. The knowledge of one branch
of chemistry is necessary for the dyer, another for
tne brewer, another for the baker, another for the
distiller.; in short, every production of the earth which
is made Subservient for our use or pleasure, undergoes
some chemical change before it is put into our pos-
session. The study of chemistry is a pleasing as
well as useful occupation, for when once a person has
attained even a slight acquaintance with it, he will
perceive an immense field of knowledge operyd before
him, and from that time he becomes a happier man,
and as he follows out the pursuit, he will become a
much Aviser man. Without using the many techni-
calities of the science, it is necessary to mention the
terms of chief import, such as chemical attraction or
a ff mU l} i attraction of aggregation ; heat; light; elec-
tricity ; and magnetism. The first principle in the
study of chemistry, is a knowledge of these proper-
ties, in different kinds of matter, which enable them
to unite with each other. This attainment is like a
ready instrument in the hands of the chemist, to bring
to pass all these fixed results which exemplify the
standard laws of creation. The property which causes
the union of one particle with another, is called
chemical attraction: for instance, sugar and water
have an attraction for each other, and will readily
unite ; on the contrary, water and oil have no affinity
for each other, and, however intimately mixed, the
oil will continue to rise to the surface of the Avater.
Attraction of aggregation or cohesion, is that power
by which particles or atoms of matter, of the same
hind, attract each other, and thus constitute a mass
or lump. This natural force is overcome by many
artificial or mechanical operations, such as heating,
grinding, and sometimes by solution. Another law
of nature, to which has been assigned the term of
attraction of gravitation, exists in the whole material
system of the universe. If anything ascends from
the earth, you see it drawn back again; if you fall,
it will be towards the earth, for the earth draws you
towards itself by attraction. Chemistry is an ancient
science, and many wise men in former times attained
great eminence by their discoveries in chemical com-
binations, but their limited notions of the various
properties and powers of nature induced them to look
upon the earth, air, fire, and water, as the four
elements, or radical sources, of all material existence.
Modern chemists take a different view of the term
dement, and instead of four, there are at present
fifty-five known substances which are called elements.
An element is a, simple body, or single substance,
from which nothing can be extracted : for instance
iron is an element, which, though found in the earth
covered and combined with much extraneous matter,
is, when separated, a single body, it may be divided
into many small parts, but each part is still iron—
it cannot be decomposed. Under this modern clas-
sification, therefore, the earth cannot be an element
for it is composed of many ingredients : air cannot
be an element, for it is composed of two gases : water
is not an element, it also being composed of two
gases : fire is extreme heat, which heat is found in a
greater or less proportion in every substance in nature.
(To be continued.)
LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL.
The debates in the Legislative Assembly since our
last publication, have been of an important nature, and
carried on with great zeal and animation.
The following is a very concise abstract of the pro-
ceedings :
WEDNESDAY. JUNE 26.
The Colonial Secretary laid on the table the return
relative to the Port Phillip Savings’ Bank.
A message was received from the Governor, en-
closing a project of a law for the consolidation and
amendment of the custom laws ; also, a statement of
the sums intended to be appropriated to the various
public departments for the present year. For state-
ment see another portion of our pages.
After some further notices of motion,
Dr. Nicholson moved—
That an address be presented to his Excellency the Gover-
nor, requesting that there may be laid upon the table of this
House, a return of the outlay incurred on account of the
aboriginal natives, belonging to the middle and northern


districts of the colony, in blankets or otherwise, during the
years 1841. 1842, and 1143, specifying the amount expended
in each of those years respectively, and the localities of the
several tribes on account of whom such expenditure has
been incurred.
His reason for bringing the subject forward was that
it had been represented that the aborigines about
Sydney had not received the usual supply of blankets
this year, and were exposed to considerable suffering
in consequence.
Mr. Therry presented a petition from 11. P. V Ish
on the present state of the law relating to the medical
profession.
THURSDAY.
Petitions were presented from stockholders of Yass
and Bathurst, against the pastoral regulations.
The Colonial Secretary presented a return of all
government correspondence relative to the establish-
ment of District Councils and other corporate bodies.
Dr. Lang having moved “ That a select committee
be appointed to consider whether any and what
changes are necessary in regard to the Presbyterian
Acts of this Colony, in consequence of the disruption
of the Church of Scotland” spoke for about an
hour and a-half in favour of the motion. An ani-
mated discussion then took place between the mover,
Mr. Cowper, Mr. Lowe, Mr. Windeyer, Dr. Nicholson
and others. Majority against the motion, 13.
A lengthened discussion also ensued on the Aus-
tralian Methodist Society’s Marriage Bill, ivhich
ended by the withdrawal of the bill by the mover —
Dr. Lang.
FRIDAY.
The Colonial Secretary laid upon the table the
u blue book” of the year ; also the remaining portion
of the government correspondence relative to the
minimum price of crown lands.
SATURDAY.
Dr. Bland presented a petition signed by seven-
hundred and twenty-one inhabitants of Sydney,
praying that the Council would take steps to secure to
Sydney an efficient Police Establishment, and also
that measures might be taken to induce the home
government to contribute to the police expenses such
portion of them as ivere caused by the presence of
convicts and expirees in Sydney.
ORIGINAL CORRESPONDENCE.
To the Editor of the Colonial Literary Journal.
Sir—As a lover of literature, in all its varied shades
and outlets, I hail, with pleasure, the appearance of
the Colonial Literary Journal ; and, as a Colonist
of some years’ standing, I feel much interest in your
pains-taking and funds-taking enterprise.
As your Prospectus timely remarks, it is certainly
rather singular, and to be lamented, that the city of
Sydney should have “ the unenviable notoriety of
not possessing one Literary Periodical,”
You have stepped forward to supply this deficiency,
for which you deserve well ; and, it is to be hoped
that this laudable essay will be received by the “in-
telligent reading inhabitants,” to whom you appeal
for support, ivith a little less of the apathy and
indifference for which they have been, hitherto, some-
what remarkable.
It is the duty of every man to wish for, and feel an
interest in, the advancement of his adopted country,
not only in wealth and importance, but as to its means
of information ; such, undoubtedly, forming the basis
of respectability in its population. Your periodical,
if properly conducted, may do something towards
promoting this good end. The power of the press to
effect a given purpose has been proved to be immense.
Let us hope that your endeavours may meet with
success, and do you not be cast down by the up-hill
work, which, for a short time, is generally a clog
upon all new undertakings.
It is to be hoped that you will be assisted in your
arduous task of gathering a retailing the weekly news,
and compiling useful information, by a host of able
contributors. Among these, though wrcable, I shall
request permission occasionally to enlist; and am,
Sir, your obedient servant,
IGNOTUS NOTOR.
[We shall be happy to receive communications from
our kind correspondent, and, with reference to his
encouraging remarks, beg to assure him, that u nil
desperandum ” shall, jointly with our primary motto,
influence us in our exertions.—Ed. C. L. J.l
DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE.
A farewell dinner to Mr. Justice Burton took place
at the Royal Hotel, on Tuesday evening last. The
Governor presided—and the numerous party that as-
sembled, consisting of most of the civil and military
officers and a great number of the elite of the colony—■
was a token of the sincere and respectful estimation
in which the worthy Judge is held by all classes in
the colony. Mr. Justice Burton will proceed in a
few days to Madras, and while we regret the removal
of so valuable a member of our judicial bench, we
unfeignedly rejoice at an event so advantageous, and,
as we doubt not, so gratifying to himself.
School of Arts. —In consequence of the incle-
mency of the weather Mr. S. P. Hill’s lecture on
Oratory, which was to have been delivered on Mon-
day evening last, was postponed until Monday next.
General Education. —The following queries have
been circulated by the Committee of the Legislative
Council, appointed to consider the Education Ques-
tion : —l. What is your opinion of the state of educa-
tion among the humbler classes in this colony '?
2. Do you recommend a general system of education,
or one carried on by each religious denomination
separately ; or do you think that these two systems
could be in any way advantageously combined ? 3.
Will you state the grounds in support of the system
which you prefer ? 4. How would you propose, in
a general system of education, to provide tor the
religious instruction of pupils ? 5. To what branches
of education do you think the system adopted should
extend ? .6. Ought the education of children to be
optional with their parents'? 7. Can you suggest
any means by which the children of shepherds and
farm servants, dispersed over the interior, may be
brought under instruction ? 8. In whose hands
ought the management and superintendence of educa-
tion to be placed'? 9. Would you recommend the
system of mutual instruction, on what is called the
Bell and Lancasterian system, or would you recom-
mend, in preference, any other system? 10. Ought
the funds, expended by Government for purposes of
education, to be advanced in proportion to local con-
tribution, to population, or on what other principle ?
11. What measures would you recommend for obtain-
ing the services of competent schoolmasters ?


Literary. —We have been favoured with a perusal
of a catalogue of valuable books which have been
imported by Mr. J. B. Edmonds, and w r hich are now r
open for public inspection at his residence, Darling
House, Fort-street. They comprise the best works
that have issued from the press, upon every branch of
literature and science, and are well worthy atten-
tion, both for their cheapness and real value, of the
scientific and literary portions of the community. —
We understand that Mr. Edmonds has made arrang-
ments with an extensive bookseller in Europe, for
keeping up a continual supply of the most popular
and useful works ; and that he is prepared to import
books to order, at the London price, without any
additional expence to those persons requiring them.
We have no doubt this excellent opportunity of pro-
curing books from Europe will be found advantageous,
and will be readily embraced by those who wish to
augment their libraries.' — Communicated.
Education. — A meeting of the members of the
congregation of the Scots Church, Pitt-street South,
in this city, was held in the church on Wednesday
evening, 26th inst., for the purpose of raising funds to
erect two school rooms, and a teacher’s dwelling
house. The church was well filled, George Fuller-
ton, Esq., M.D., one of the trustees, occupied the
chair. Appropriate addresses on the importance of
education were delivered by the Chairman and Mr.
John Davis, after which nearly two hundred pounds
were contributed towards the erection of the build-
ings. Of this sum three individuals gave £l4O, viz.
—Dr. Cuthill £5O, the Chairman £5O, and another
person £4O. The meeting was opened with prayer
by the Rev. Dr. Fullerton, and closed with prayer by
the Rev. Irving Hetherington, of Singleton.
Civil List. —On Wednesday, 26th June, the Colo-
nial Secretary presented to the Legislative Council
the following “ Statement of the amount intended to
be appropriated in the year 1845, for the services and
purposes named in schedule B, annexed to 5 and 6
Victoria, cap. 76, presented to the Legislative Coun-
cil by His Excellency the Governor, pursuant to the
39th section of the said Act : Colonial Secretary
and his Department, £7OOO, (this sum will cover the
charge of £721 18s. 9d., for the establishment of his
Honor the Superintendent of Port Phillip, for which
the Council declined, last session, otherwise to pro-
vide) ; Colonial Treasurer and his Department,
£5OOO (in this amount the charge of £lO6l Bs. 9d.,
for the Sub-Treasury, at Melbourne, is included) ;
Auditor-General and his department, £3000; Exe-
cutive Council, £230 ; Pensions, .£1750. Total,
£16,980.”
Pteturn of the quantity and value of wool exported
from the colony of New South Wales, (including the
district of Port Phillip) from the year 1834 to 1843
inclusive:—
Value, as entered
Year. Quantity. in the return
of exports.
1834 2,246,9331b5. £213,628
1835 3,893,927 299,587
1836 3,693,241 369,324
1837 4,448,796 332,166
1838 5,749,376 405,977
1839 7,213,584 442,504
1840 8,610,775 566,112
1841 8,390,540 517,537
1842 9,428.036 595,175
1843 12,704,899 685,647
NOTICE.
The Editor does not hold himself responsible for the opi-
nions and assertions contained in the correspondence and
contributions inserted in the Colonial Literary Journal.
potter to Correspontfrnts.
We shall be glad to receive occasional contributions from the
writer on “ The Literary Institutions of the Colony.” We
have taken the liberty of omitting a small portion of his
first article, printed in another portion of our pages, as we
wish to avoid all unnecessary personalities.
We have perused the effusions of our Poetical correspondent,
(The Farmer's Lament, and A Poem on Religion,) and must
decline inserting them, as our pages are not suited to long
Poetical pieces. The writer has fluent ideas, but we must
recommend to him a very decided improvement in senti-
ment, language, prosody and punctuation.
We shall willingly continue the insertion of articles from our
kind correspondent on “ The Prospects and Resources of
the Colony.”
EXTRACTS.
The Conservative. —The true Conservative is one,
who, faithful to God and his country, seeks “ to do
his duty in that state of life to which it has pleased
God to call him.” Regarding the institutions of his
country as designed, not for the aggrandisement of a
party, but as for the protection and benefit of all, he
exults in the blessings they have secured for his native
land, and guards them as a sacred trust for posterity.
Anxious to remove any blot which may disfigure
them, and to promote whatever may render them
more effective for the public good, he requires proof
that the proposed change is desirable, practicable, and
safe. He condemns experimental legislation, which
risks substantial blessings for shadows. He refuses
to exchange practical systems for untried theories.—
He will not purchase real advantage at the cost of
injustice. Conscience, as ivell as judgment, teaches
him, that however duty and interest may seem to
clash, yet that, whether in private, or public, or nati-
onal concerns, integrity is the true and only path to
safety, honor, and success. He knows his rights as a
member of a free state, and firmly maintains them.
He knows his duty as a subject, and performs it
cheerfully. He regards the poor and the helpless,
not as burdens upon the land, who have scarcely the
right to live, except as they minister to the pride and
convenience of the rich; but as a sacred charge, to be
especially protected and cherished. He has no idea
of politics apart from morals ; of morals, not founded
upon religion ; of religion, not derived from revela-
tion. Conservative principles, in short, comprehend
every duty to our neighbour, our country, and our
king, all with reference to God, as our supreme ruler
and judge.— Osier.
French and English Fingers.—l was on the same
sofa, at a ball in Paris, with Prince , one of
the richest men of the continent. His arm lay on the
back of the seat, in a way to bring his hand quite
near me. Every finger was covered with jewels of
price, some of them having two or three, like the
fingers of a woman. A piece of soap would have
done more to embellish the hand than all his finery.
Directly before me stood the Duke of , one of
the richest nobles of England. I took occasion to
look at him as he drew a glove. He had not even
the signet-ring, which is now so very common to
wear, but the hand was as white as snow. — Cooper's
England.


James Watt’s Boyhood. —A friend of Mr. Watt
one day came upon the young James, stretched upon
the ground, tracing with chalk all sort of cross lines.
“ Why do you suffer this child thus to trifle away his
time ?” exclaimed the visitor, “ send him to school.”
Tou will do well to delay your judgement,” said
the father, “ before condemning him ; be good enough
to nnd out his occupation.” The harsh judgment
was speedily reversed. The child of six was solving
a problem in geometry. “ James,” said Mrs. Muir-
head, one day, to her nephew, “ I never saw any boy
more given to trifling than you are ; can’t you take
a book and employ yourself usefully ? There have
you been sitting a whole hour without speaking a
single word. Do you know what you have been about
all this time ? You have done nothing but shut and
open, and open and shut the lid of the tea-kettle ; and
first you have put the saucer in the steam from the
spout, and then you have held the silver teaspoon in
it j and then you have done nothing but pour over
them, and bring together the drops formed by con-
densation, on the surface of the china or the clear
spoon. Arn’t you ashamed of spending your time in
that way ?”
The solitary Tree near Dover Castle. —About
three quarters of a mile from Dover, on the Deal
road, there stands, on the highest part of the hill,
a solitary tree. Its lonely situation, and the long
distance at which it can be seen, have for some years
made it an object of interest to the people of Dover,
and more especially to the inmates of the castle, from
which it is literally the only tree visible in that direc-
tion. There is, however, a curious history relative
to it, which deserves to be made known. It appears
that upwards of sixty years ago. two soldiers, who
had been companions from youth, fell deeply in love
with the same girl. One evening, one of them, whose
name was Donald Me , discovered his rival walk-
ing with the girl on the road to Deal. He imme-
diately set off in pursuit, but in his haste forgot to
take any weapon with him ! he therefore cut a stick
from one of the hedge rows, and overtaking his com-
rade soon after his mistress had parted from him,
attacked him furiously, and striking him repeated
blows on the head, left him for dead on the spot.
The stick was completely covered with blood, and
the assassin, lest it should lead to a discovery of his
crime, thrust it deeply into the ground, and returned
to his quarters. The regiment marched from Dover
the following morning without the missing man, who
was found after their departure still living. Even-
tually he recovered from the injuries he had received,
but when reason returned, he could only remember
being attacked by some stranger, so that the real
culprit was not suspected. The idea of being a mur-
derer, however, haunted Donald night and day, and
from one of the gayest he became one of the most
melancholy men in the regiment. After a few years
of foreign service, he returned to England, and a
strange desire seized him to revisit the scene of his
guilt. He went to the place, and found to his aston-
ish- ent that the weapon with which he had assaulted
hi iriend had taken root where he had thrust it, and
had thrown forth numerous branches. He then re-
turned to his native place in Scotland, but after a
lapse of sew-. ■•- \he same morbid desire to view
the fatal spot again returned upon him, and he
actually walked from Montrose to Dover for that
purpose. He again beheld the instrument of his
vengeance green and flourishing. This time, how-
ever, he had the courage to make particular inquiry
respecting his supposed victim, and great was his joy
on learning that the man had recovered, and was then
serving on board an Indiaman. Old Donald lived
to the age of ninety-four, and related this story to
the minister of the village in Scotland where he died
last autumn. And this is the history of the “ solitary
tree,” which cannot be mistaken by the traveller, as
it stands close to the road towards which its bifurcated
trunk leans, on the left hand going from Dover Castle
towards Deal, about two hundred yards beyond the
second milestone from Dover. We believe that the
true tale connected with this remarkable tree is known
to few persons beside the obliging correspondent who
has communicated it to us. —English paper.
Fashions for February.-— The sloppy weather has
compelled boots to give way in some places, and also
stockings, which are let out here and there, but par-
ticularly about the ball of the foot, where a slash in
the chaussure releases the bas from its confined posi-
tion. The golosh is a favourite both with ladies and
gentlemen, but some are w r orn so degage, that one
golosh is apt to twist round the ankle, or come quite
off; but it is only those who go a very great way in
the article of goloshes, that adopt the style alluded
to. In very wet weather, we have seen a tasteful
article made of brown paper, dipped in oil and cut en
cape, which is a cheap substitute for a regular
Macintosh. It admits of a good deal of wear and tear,
for directly you wear it, the cape begins to tear all
to pieces.— Punch.
Government Advertisement. — Wanted for Ire-
land, an Attorney General, who will be ready to
challenge not only jurors but Counsel themselves, and
who will be prepared to fight the battles of the Crown
with pistols—the question of a defendant being
“ worth powder and shot” having a strictly liberal
meaning, which may be resolved on application to
the defendant’s advocate. The applicant for the office
must be willing to give every one satisfaction by
means of pistols—but not otherwise; a disregard
to the dignity and authority of the Bench, evincing
an independence of spirit, will be liberally treated
with ; and any one against whom the public, on all
sides, may have been calling out, will not be objected
to, if he calls out one of his learned brethren.— Punch.
Charge to a Jury by an American Judge.—
“ Murder, gentlemen, is wffien a man is murderously
killed. The killer, in such a case, is a murderer.
Now, murder by poison is as much murder as murder
with a gun. It is the murder that constitutes murder
in the eyes of the law. You will bear in mind that
murder is one thing and manslaughter another ;
therefore, if it is not manslaughter, it must be murder.
Self-murder has nothing to do in this case. One man
cannot commit felo de se on another ; that is clearly
my view. Gentlemen, I think you can have no
difficulty. Murder, I say, is murder. The murder
of a brother is called fratricide, but it is not fratricide
if a man murders his mother. You will make up
your minds. You know 7 what murder is, and I need
not tell you w r hat it is not. I repeat, murder is murder.
You can retire upon it if you like.”
The queen’s troops at present serving in India are
composed of five cavalry and 23 regiments of infantry,
making a total of 26,370 men.


Gaslight superseded by Electricity. —A letter
from Paris, dated October 21, gives the following
interesting account of the first public trial of an
experiment which has been more than four years in
preparation, for fixing at a given point, the electric
fluid, and making it applicable to the purpose of light-
ing the streets and private houses:—On one of the
bases of the statues called the Pavillion de Lille, on
the Place de la Concorde, a glass globe of apparently
12 or 13 inches in diameter, with a moveable re-
flector, was fixed in connexion with a voltaic battery,
and a little before nine o’clock the electric fluid was
thrown into it by a conductor. At this time all the
gas lights of the place, about 100 in number, were
burning. As soon as the electric light appeared, the
nearest gas lights had the same dull, thick, and heavy
appearance, as oil lamps have by the side of gas. Soon
afterwards the gas lights were extinguished, and the
electric light shone forth in all its brilliancy. Within
100 yards of the light it was easy to read the smallest
print ;it was in fact as light as day. The astonish-
ment of the assembled multitude was very great,
and their delight as strong as their astonishment.—
The estimate made by scientific persons who were
present, was, that the electric light was equal to 20
of the gas lamps, and consequently, that 5 of these
lights would suffice to light the whole place most
brilliantly. As regards the expense of production,
nothing positive has transpired, but 1 think I may
safely assume that it would be considerably less than
that of the generation of gas, whilst the first outlay
for machinery and conductors would not amount to
a twentieth part of that required for gas works. There
be another great advantage in the electric
light. It gives out no bad smell; it emits none of
those elements which, in the burning of gas, are so
injurious to health, and explosion would be im-
possible The only danger that would arise would
be at the battery itself, but that would be under the
control of competent persons; and even in this re-
spect there would be no danger, even to unskilful
persons, with an apparatus of moderate size. Internal
lightning would be as practicable as external light-
ning, for by conductors the fluid would be conveyed
to every part of the house. The experiment performed
last night was with a voltaic battery of two hundred
pairs, composed as follows: first, an outer globe of
glass; secondly, in this globe a cylinder of charcoal
open at both ends.
The Martyr Gibbs.— A few of the London Aider-
men, in order to mark their sense of the “ shameful mis-
representations” of which poor Alderman Gibbs has
been made the victim, intend to erect a statute to the
great accountant. He will be represented in the
abstract character of Magnanimity “ smiling at”
Arithmetic. It seems that the Alderman having been
wickedly abused by the vile press, is at length to be
“cut” by his best friends.
One evening lately, when talking on the Duke of
Richmond’s Betting Legislation Bill, Lord Brougham
said, with the utmost sang froid, that persons in the
most elevated stations were guilty of gambling ;
even ourselves, my lords,” said he, 11 sometimes give
a guinea to the raffle of a poor artist.”
m Agents for tliis
Windsor .. .
Bathursl
West Maitland
Journal.
Mr. Walker.
Mr. Tress.
Mr, Galloway.
Si> ippusg Sutelligme.
ARRIVALS.
June 26.—The barque Briton, Captain Hall, from Liver-
pool, with emigrants and merchandise.
June 26.*—The barque Royal Saxon, Captain Charlsworth,
from London, with emigrants and merchandise.
June 26.—The brig Tobago, Captain Pockley, from Laun-
ceston. with a general cargo.
July I.—The barque Nhnrod, Captain Sullivan, from the
Whale Fishery, with 220 barrels sperm and 80 barrels black oil.
July 2.—The steamer Sovereign, Captain Cape, from More-
ton Bay, with wool, tallow, &e.
July 2.—The schooner Vanguard, Captain Pilford, from
Port Nicholson, with sundries.
DEPARTURES.
June 28.—The ship United Kingdom, Captain Teulon, for
Bombay, with sundries.
June 28.—The schooner Munford, Captain Douglas, for
Guam, with sundries.
June 28.—The brig Bee, Captain Purcel, for New Zealand
and the South Sea Islands, with sundries.
June 29.—The schooner Velocity, Captain Orr, for the
Marquesas, with sundries.
June 29.—The brig Margaret, Captain Thomson, for the
Marquesas, with horses.
July I.—The barque Jane Goudie, Captain Goudie, for
London, with colonial produce.
33trtf)S.
On the 26th June, at her residence, Elizabeth-street, Mrs.
Richard Lamb, of a son.
On the 26th instant, at her residence, Castlereagh-street,
the wife of J. B. Darval, Esq., barrister at law, of a son.
On the 30th June, at Darlinghurst, Mrs. W. T. Cape, of a
son.
On the 30th June, at Miller’s Point, Mrs. John Crook, of a
daughter.
©fat^S.
On the 28th instant, at Bayly Park, the infant daughter of
Henry Bayly, Esq.
On the 29th ultimo, at his residence, Regentville, Sir John
Jamison, K.G.V., Physician of the Fleet, aged 68.
THIS r.Air ES PUHLSSHEB, paics 2s.
NO 1. of a Series of CLASSICAL TEXT BOOKS, con-
taining two books of Eutropius, Select Lives from
Cornelius Nepos, and Fables from Ovid, with English Notes
and Examination Questions, by T. H. BRAIM, Esq , of St.
John’s College, Cambridge, Head Master of the Sydney
College
JUST RECE.VED, ex Hindoo, a large assortment of
Repeal, Temperance, Confirmation, Nelson, and Tunnel
Medals, with Cathedral and others of a very beautiful descrip-
tion, adapted for presents.
The attention of Temperance Societies is especially invited
to five hundred beautiful Temperance Medals, which will be
sold cheap.
Specimens may be seen at Mr. Reading’s Printing Office,
133, King-street East.
GXX.Z.OT3VS STEEL FENS.
A large and select assortment of the above Pens from the
house of the celebrated “ Joseph Gillott,” are now on
sale at tb Q Colonial Literary Journal Office, 133, King-street,
and may be had in any quantity from Is. 4d. a gross upwards.
The superiority of these Pens need no comment, their quality
being now well known. The following are enumerated for the
quidance of persons using the above :
Patent Magnum Bonum, in one dozen boxes, adapted for
Commercial purposes.
School pens, broad, fine, and medium, adapted for schools.
Caligraphic pen, fine point, adapted for Draftsmen.
Albert and Vibtoria pens, for Letter writing.
Damascus pen, for Book-keeping,
N. B.—A reduction in price having recently been made by
Joseph Gillott, intending purchasers will have the advantages
of the reduction.


©clontal Etterarj) journal,
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
ffIHE TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION to this Journal
JL are, Three Shillings per Quarter, in Town ; Country,
Three Shillings and Sixpence ; payable , in every case,
in advance. .
Terms for Advertisements: —For one inch, and under,
Three Shillings; and One Shilling for every additional inch,
each insertion. Advertisements will be received until Two
o’clock on Wednesday afternoon; but cannot be withdrawn
later than Nine o’clock on Wednesday morning. Adver-
tisements must specify on the face of them the number of
times they are to be inserted, or they will be continued till
countermanded, and charged accordingly.
All communications must be addressed to “ The Editor
of the Colonial Literary Journal, General Printing Office,
133, King-street East,” (post paid.)
Those Subscribers who do not receive their copies
regularly, will much oblige the publishers by sending for them,
to the Office, 133, King-street.
A3VSETSSEMBNT EXTKAORBINARY.
EDWARD WALKER still continues to manufacture the
Farinaceous Food, Prepared Barley, and Patent Groats,
and returns many thanks to the public for the encouragement
he has met with in the sale of the above nutritious articles
of diet.
E. W. feels much indebted to the Faculty for the pains they
have taken in ihe examination of these articles as regards
their purity and quality, which the flattering testimonials
enclosed in the packages certify, and are as follows: —
Sydney, Feb. 23d, 1844.
I certify that having carefully examined the Patent Groats
and prepared Barley, manufactured by Mr. Edward Walker, I
find the former of an excellent quality, well prepared, and free
from all acidity ; it can therefore, be strongly recommended as
a valuable article of Diet for Children and Invalids, and supe-
rior to any of the imported kinds I have yet seen.
The prepared Barley, is also of a superior quality, and may
likewise be highly recommended either for culinary purposes,
or as a nutritious and agreeable beverage for invalids.
GEORGE BENNETT, Surgeon.
I certify that I have carefully examined and tested the
Patent Groats and prepared Barley, manufactured in this
Colony by Mr. Edward Walker, and I find them superior to
any imported article of the same description I have as yet seen.
The Patent Groats prepared by Mr. E. Walker, can be safely
warranted as free from that acidity or sourness which is so
frequently the case*with the imported article, and from the
superior quality of the grain, and care which lias been taken
in the preparation of the sample I have seen, I feel great
satisfaction in stating it to be, as far as I can judge, an excel-
lent article of Diet for the Invalid, as well as a highly nutri-
tious and digestible food for Infants.
The prepared Barley cannot be too strongly recommended as
an article for culinary use, or for making a cooling and nutri-
tious drink for Invalids.
FREDERICK MACKELLAR, M. D.
Surgeon to the Sydney Dispensary.
Sydney, Feb. 15th, 1844.
I have examined specimens of Groats and Barley, prepared
by Mr. E. Walker, of Sydney, both of which articles are espe-
cially adapted for the Diet of Invalids and Children.
Mr. Walker has been successful in depriving his Patent
Groats of that tendency to acescence, which that grain in its
unprepared state, is liable to in the stomach of the Invalid —
a matter of consequence in the Diet of Children for whom
wholesome food is so necessary.
Walker’s Patent Barley is valuable in the domestic manage-
ment of the sick—-forming extemporaneously Barley Water;
and in eonvaleseence, it is particularly valuable, as it adds a
very safe article to the necessarily scanty dietary of the con-
valescent.
I have much pleasure in giving my testimony in favour of
these articles, satisfied, that the Patentee will find it his in-
terest, as well as his duty, to continue to prepare them from
sound materials.
Ist Feb. 1844. J. MacFARLANE, M. D.
05* Manufactory Old Botany Road, late of Parramatta-street.
