

COLONIAL LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
“ NON TUA TE MOVEANT, SED PUBLICA VOTA.”
Vol. I. No. 27.]
SYDNEY, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 26, 1844.
[Price 4d.
CHRISTMAS.
dVootr fjousctotfr anir Ijusbantr, noto cffafltr fa glair,
Wngs banirsomc to ijabc, as tfa» ougfa to fa fan :
botf) tfap probtfa agatnst Christmas iro comr,
Vto toehome gooir netgpour, gooir cfacr to fabc some;
(Siooir facalr, anir gooir Irrinfa, a gooir far tn tfa ball.
33ratonc, puirirtng anir souse, anir'gooir mustarlr fchtl;al:
13ecf, mutton, anir porfa, sbreair ptes of tfa best,
beak, goose, anir eapon, anir turfan toel irrest;
©beese, apples anir nuts, jolke earols to'faar,
ft* tfan tn country is counteir gooir dfaerc.
Tusser.
No festival time of the Christian calendar is so dear
to remembrance, or treasured with such anticipation,
as the holiday of Christmas. In the most ancient
times, long before the occurrence of that stupendous
event which fulfilled the first promise made to man,
and gave a Saviour to the world, it was the custom of
the nations of northern Europe, at the winter solstice,
to celebrate with religious festivities, rude and out-
rageous indeed, the birth of a new year. Nor have
the remembrance of these fabulous rites ever been
obliterated. Regulated by a better spirit, and in-
tended to exhibit a better purpose, they have, with
little actual change, been observed without inter-
mission since the commencement of the Christian era.
We have ample accounts, in the histories of the
ancient English chroniclers, of the gorgeous pagean-
tries and mummeries of the earlier and middle ages
during this festive season, the feastings of the rich and
great, their open-handed liberality to the poor, and
the wide hospitality and beneficence which prevailed
in all places. They also relate that the feast was
equally observed in war or in peace, and that even
outlaws, homicides, and traitors, were free to join in
the universal pastimes and solemnities, that donations
and dues were given to the national Church, presents
universally exchanged between persons of equal rank,
and a welcome and a wassail found for every guest.
As the once powerful chains of feudal bondage were
broken, and men became less enslaved to each other,
and to mutual observances—to us was it left to repeat
that true sentiment, “ Clavus, clavo pellitur, consue-
tudo, consuetudine vincitur.” Nail is driven out by
nail ; one custom vanquishes another.
Our present attention is, however, drawn to a far
different scene. To the emigrant from any of the
British isles, nothing in spite of his being well aware
of the antipodal difference of the seasons in England
and this, colony, nothing, we say, appears to him
more strange and cheerless for the first time, than
the difference between Christmas here, and Christmas
at home ; and, so great is the force of habit, that he is
by no means satisfied with the loss of many an old-
established Christmas custom. He cannot, in New
South Wales, welcome hearty Old Father Christmas
upon the threshold of his winter-home, nor is he
called upon to shovel the falling snow from off his
paths and avenues, or to pile the huge Yule-block
upon the cheerful hearth. Nor can the schoolboys
gather the hawthorn glimmering white, or meet in
mimic fight with snowy missiles; nor can the tender-
hearted maiden strew the crumbs so confidently
awaited by her favourite robin-redbreast. But, above
all does the emigrant severely feel the want of the
pleasing concourse of relatives and friends, for at no
other time is the heart so peculiarly inclined to revert
to the scenes of childhood, the old familiar faces, and
the well-remembered homes of our youth and man-
hood. By and bye, however, new friends are found,
and connexions formed, and even he may acknow-
ledge that there is something very cheering in the
frequent meetings between them, which still take
place at Christmas, and in the comfort which pervades
the family circle and the social board. And whatever
be the clime to which they may wander, or the pri-
vations they may there endure, as long as the de-
scendants of the joyous, cheerful Saxon inhabitants of
the rude North have minds stored with remembrances
of the hallowed customs of past ages, and hearts stored
with improved sympathies, so long will Christmas
never be forgotten in cottage or courtlier hall; “ for,
after all,” says a writer, “ what is Christmas but a
sweet reunion of all living and natural things which
we hold most dear, —sanctioned by a joyful mystery
which blends our joy with jubilee of angels above.
It is then that sounds and voices speak up from the
olden time to a more enlightened generation, blended
with emblems germinating ever in the poetry of the
human breast, and stifled alone by selfishness and
debauched pride.” ■
“ Sanctioned by a joyful mystery”—This brings us
to consider the festival in its religious and more cor-
rect complexion. The season of Christmas is a season
of rejoicing and festivity ; and it is right that it should
be so. Angels rejoiced together in the contemplation
of Christ’s nativity ; they saw him put on his strange
dress of humanity, they saw him shroud all the bright-
ness of his divinity in an earthen vessel, with joy ;
they lost sight of the humiliation in the effects that
were to result from it : and shall not we, who have
so near and personal an interest in those effects, par-
take in the joy ? Shall we not meet together on such
occasions as this with every token of humble but


hearty satisfaction, not merely because there is glory
to God in the highest, but because there is on earth
peace and good-will towards men ? It would be
unnatural, and, we would even say unwarrantable, to
let Christmas pass over without some extraordinary
recognition of the benefits which it commemorates.
We think it right and comely that the absent members
of a family should, when possible, meet around the
social hearth for the interchange of mutual affection,
and the participation of mutual happiness. We meet
on great occasions of family ; and this, if viewed pro-
perly, is the greatest of all—this great blessing of a
common salvation affords a uniting link of stronger
and of holier texture than the firmest and the purest
ties of natural kindred and affection.
The object of this portion of our remarks is by no
means to seek to engender a morose and gloomy
spirit; but to observe that, as to how far the social
mirth is allowed to proceed, or of what nature it is to
be allowed to consist, must be left to the consciences,
individually, of our readers. All do not possess the
like sentiments : the case is, indeed, the very reverse.
He who looks upon Christmas as more especially a
religious festival, will scarcely think it a fit season to
hold a feast, where the body is alone thought of, or
cared for ; but will rather consider it a solemn mockery
of the name he bears, to mark that time which he
commemorates, perhaps, by a visit to the house of
God, with an extraordinary degree of dissipation and
frivolity during the rest of the day. All, however
different their views on some points may be, agree in
condemning such inconsistency. Nothing is more
observed by friends than this failing, however ex-
hibited, and, as it were in just retribution, it is sure
to be remembered to the shame and disadvantage of
the offender.
As we remarked above, such a point is between
every man and his own soul. All do not think alike.
To rational enjoyments no man can be an enemy,
unless biassed by incorrect notions of religion, or
influenced by morbid feelings, provided that such
occasions are signalised by the operation of moral
and Christian principles. But it is too true that
scenes of more than ordinary riot and debauchery too
often present themselves. Dissipation, indeed, of
various kinds, is too often the order of the day at this
season. The “holiday folk” as they are termed,
must have a treat at Christmas at least, if not again
for the year, and it is impossible to calculate on the
mass of misery which proceeds from initiating young
persons in the amusements afforded by the theatres,
and other places of still baser pollution. How many
a parent has himself entirely to blame for the miscon-
duct of his children, which may be traced back to the
cause now adverted to.
In contradistinction to the above picture, it is
affected by some, that, in this age of improvement, all
kinds of sensual enjoyments are being dethroned, and
mental pleasures substituted. We must confess that we
hope such will not unconditionally be the case, and
confess likewise that we do not think it ever will be.
Though we should not relish the “ cheerful fire-side”
during the summer solstice, and do not recommend
the present generation to adopt the mighty “ brown
bowl ” of their fore-fathers, we still would deeply
regret to see many of the interesting customs of the
days of old fall entirely into disuse. A love of Christ-
mas Festivities seems hitherto to have been closely
intermingled with the more generous and nobler traits
of the English character, and long may it so remain.
Let us not forget, however, to retain the ancient
character for liberality to our poorer brethren. "Whilst
we feast on the bounty of the Author of Christmas,
let us plead for mercy and largess for the wretched,
the friendless, and above all, for the poor, who—when
we remember the celestial favour shewn to lowly
shepherds alone, at the birth of one who loved the
poor—have, at this season, a prescriptive and peculiar
right to our liberal attention.
[Prompted by a wish to enhance the cheerfulness and
hilarity so congenial to the season, we cannot restrain our-
selves from recommending, or rather reminding our readers
of a real Christmas tale, (no one, even the most morose, can
say he has not found pleasure in a tale) one written expressly
for Christmas, and which is presented complete in the present
volume. It is Boz’s “ Christmas Carol,” a tale that can be
read with interest twice, aye, and thrice, —a tale that points
out, with inimitable pleasantry, the moral benefits to be
derived from a due and proper celebration of the festival of
Christmas, which, be it remembered, does not consist of one
day alone. We allude to the Christmas Holidays. The tale
we have pointed out, if read attentively, and with a desire to be
so benefitted, will express more than we could say, were the
foregoing lengthy remarks doubled ; and we do not doubt but
that some of our readers will, in their ardour, forthwith put the
Index, presented with the present Number, to its legitimate
use ; while, in the spirit of the season, we will conclude with
the final sentence of the tale referred to : —“ And so, as Tiny
Tim observed, God Bless Us, Every One!”]
THE NATIVITY.
REV. THOMAS DALE.
A light is kindled o'er the midnight sky,
Of broad unwonted brightness ; the hush’d air
Is filled with sounds of strange sweet melody,
As though an angel-choir were hymning there
Celestial strains, and each aerial power
Had lit the starry-lamp within his beacon-tower.
And hark ! fresh sounds; and lo ! the scattered beams
Condense into a wreath of living light,
Pure as the chaste cold moonbeams, yet more bright
Than the full noontide blaze; behold! it streams
Above, around an earthly dwelling-place—
Heaven sheds its purest rays on some of mortal race !
Why shine ye thus, ye heavens ? and wherefore, earth !
Art thou thus graced by splendour not thine own?
Say, who and where is he at whose glad birth
Reveal’d the glory of the Lord hath shone ?
Not thus it kindled when the Law was given,
And through its central caves was startled Sinai riven!
Is it the hoped Deliverer, whose dread sword
Shall smite the heathen hosts in holiest war ?
Is it the sceptre now at length restored
To Judah’s royal line ? The sacred Star
That shall outshine the day’s proud orb, and bless
Glad Israel’s rescued seed —a Sun of Righteousness ?
’Tis all, ’tis more ! Upon a lowly bed,
Within a lowliest dwelling, there is One
Not earthly though on earth, and though the Son
Of God, yet born of woman ! Round his head
Those rays are circling, till they seem to shine
With such resplendent blaze as gilds the throne divine !
Well may they shine ! It is the promised Son,
Emmanuel, God with us, revealed on earth,
The living image of the viewless One !
Well may they shine! By his auspicious birth
Peace comes to dwell on earth—joy reigns in heaven—
Hell trembles—sin is chained —death vanquish’d—man
forgiven !


THE RIVALS.
Most ungrateful maid,
Have you conspired, have you with these contrived
To bait me with this foul flerision.
Shakspeare.
«« Nephew Philip ! nephew Philip ! I will bear it no longer :
one prank following another, night and day, day and night,—
brawling and feasting with your flashing gallants what care
I for fine name and silk doublet ? I, Luke Malmsey, of
Malmsey Manor, knighted by his late sacred majesty’s own
swor d ;—T, that have spoken in parliament, and ruffled at
court with the best! —I, that have stayed in retirement to give
you a proper bringing up!—Did not worthy Mr. Jonas Cas-
socksleeve teach you to fear God, honour the king, and obey me
in all things?—and Barnaby the huntsman train you in wood-
craft ?—and 1 myself show you how to carve a woodcock when
you had shot it, —to sing a song, and give a toast? And what
what return have you made for all my care, —ay, what return
I say, nephew Philip? When I sleep don’t you wake me ?
when I speak don’t you contradict me?—is dinner ever served
at noon, or supper at six? Are not my old serving-men
flouted by your town lackeys? Did not you, or a brother
knave, shoot Roan Barbary in the paddock, —poor old Roan,
that carried me to meet King James of blessed memory ? Go
to, graceless ! I’m not dead yet,—no, nor ailing yet ; and I’ll
be obeyed and respected by my own household, —and therefore
I’ll marry, varlet! —think upon that now !”
Sir Luke ceased speaking, not because his anger was
exhausted, but that he lacked breath to give it utterance.—
Complainant and culprit were both sitting together, after the
evening, or, as a modern would term it, afternoon meal, com-
plete opposites in dress, character, and appearance. Arrayed
in a loose night-robe of murrey-coloured damask, stiff enough
to support itself on one end, with sleeves of sufficient width to
contain a nephew in each, Sir Luke Malmsey occupied, in
every sense, a tub-like arm-chair, which, with its massy frame,
and cumbrous cushions, would have shamed half a dozen
degenerate fauteuils. On a stand, which matched the dark
walnut wainscotting of the room, lay the materials for smoking;
and beside them stood a huge silver cup filled with clarey,
wine made hot, and flavoured with honey and costly spices.
The knight’s appearance bespoke him a choleric, credulous,
indolent, good-natured, old bachelor; who ate often, slept
much, expected deference, and had no objection to flattery.
He was, moreover, to quote a few lines of an excellent old
ballad, “ The Old and Young Courtier ,”
A worshipful country gentleman who had a great estate,
That kept a brave old house at a bountiful rate ;
With an old porter to relieve the poor at his gate;
He every quarter paid his old servants their wages,
And never knew what belonged to coachmen, footmen, nor
pages.
With an old buttery-hatch worn quite off the hooks,
And an old kitchen that maintained half a dozen old cooks ;
With an old hall hung round with pikes, guns, and bows,
With old swords and bucklers, that had borne many shrewd
blows;
With an old falconer, huntsman, and a kennel of hounds,
That never hawked nor hunted but in his own grounds ;
Who, like a wise man, kept himself within his own bounds,
&c.’
Opposite to him sat his nephew, who also looked what in
reality he was ; a personification of mirth and mischief; a con-
ceited, frolicsome, refractory youth, who had so long considered
himself, and been considered by others, the undoubted heir to
Sir Luke’s estate, that he was apt to forget that at present Sir
Luke was its possessor. His person was handsome, and from
the scrupulous care manifested in its decoration, it seemed
that none were better aware of this circumstance than Master
Philip himself. The leg was “ a reasonable good one,” and
arrayed consequently in tight-fitting silken hose; his figure
was elegant, and therefore the velvet doublet was closely but-
toned; while his hair hung down to the falling collar of
delicately wrought cambric, in elaborate, and yet not ungrace-
ful curls.
From these slight sketches of their respettive characters, it
will readily be supposed that uncle and nephew were the plague
of each other’s existence. There is, however, a point, beyond
which none may venture to give, because none will endure,
offence ; and Master Philip having recently returned from
town with a fresh importation of friends and fopperies, and
having with their aid, performed a few characteristic exploits,
Sir Luke was provoked to threaten the desperate remedy of
marriage.
“Now, by the thistle of St. James!” exclaimed the scape-
grace, on hearing his uncle’s determination, “one would think
that finding a wife was as easy as buying a horse: and which
of our fair neighbours will you deign to accept ?”
Sir Luke vouchsafed no reply ; but continued, to use the
phrase of the period, “taking” his tobacco, “that stinking
weed” as Stowe terms it, “ so much abused to God’s dis-
honour.” Not aware that the portentous puffs which ever
and anon emanated from his uncle’s lips, were in fact so many
expressions of anger, Master Philip resumed his banter.
“Well but, uncle—uncle Luke, I say, the thought is a
thrifty one—our matters are not well looked to—we need a
woman’s eye;—this vvainscotting, with all its “dainty devices,”
looks but dingily metliinks our tapestry hangings lack
rC pai r . the Queen of Sheba’s petticoats are indecorously
rent, uncle, and King Solomon hath no longer eyes to see the
mischief; —the rusty bucklers in the hall cry out for Margery
the scullion —our silver ”
Sir Luke’s patience was exhausted ; and he interrupted these
audacious allusions to his household gods, by sending forth a
sudden gust of smoke which effected, what no remonstrance
would have done, it brought tears into his nephew’s eyes ; but
the graceless youth, after applying his perfumed and em-
broidered handkerchief to the suffering organs, returned to
the charge.
“Fie fie, good uncle ! an’ I had been been your lady just
then!—portly Mistress Cicely of the Hold, in her scarlet kirtle,
and Sunday hood, with two rings on each finger, and her purse
and keys gingling at her waist; —or Lady Beatrice, uncle, —
only fancy the Lady Beatrice, covering her eyes with her
dainty hand, and saying, “Sooth la, Sir Luke, you are an
odious brute!”
The young heir was a madcap, but his apparently random
introduction°of these fair dames was a stroke of policy. They
were the only unmarried ladies of consideration in the imme-
diate neighbourhood, and he wished to sound his uncle’s senti-
ments with respect to them. Mistress Cicely of the Hold,
would, he well knew, have little objection to come Mistress
Cicely of Malmsey Manor; but the Lady Beatrice, the refined
the beautiful, the coquettish Lady Beatrice, although dependent
on her brother, would, he knew, just as soon accept an offer
to live in a rook’s nest.
At length the knight opened his mouth for the purpose of
speech. “ Nephew Philip,” said he, in a voice that made
nephew Philip wish that his discretion had equalled his
impertinence, “the father of Lady Beatrice was a worthy
gentleman, my well-esteemed friend, albeit too fond of wasting
his patrimony in tricking out his grounds and dwelling after
a vain and foreign fashion; but that matters nothing to thee,
or to thy concerns, nephew Philip, which arewellnigh settled;
—troop thy ways lienee before to-morrow noon ; take all that
belongs to thee—horse, hound, hawk, lackey, belt, blade, and
scabbard ; leave not a feather behind —go to town, go to court,
go to Saint Nicholas, an’ thou wilt—but come not within sight
of Luke Malmsey, and Malmsey Manor, on this side dooms-
day—think upon that now !”
The clioler of an habitually calm man, or the calmness of
one habitually choleric, is equally to be dreaded ; and this last
speech of the knight’s, uttered in a quiet, determined tone,
convinced the young heir that for the present the sun of his
fortune was obscured. Aware, that as yet neither submission
nor remonstrance would avail him, he retired, with a crest-
fallen aspect, very foreign to one so incorrigibly volatile.
Meanwhile, Mr. Jonas Cassocksleeve, and gray headed
Barnaby, the huntsman, were summoned in turn to Sir Luke’s
retiring-room. The conference held with the worthy chap-
lain, and the commission intrusted to him, we are not yet
privileged to unfold; but with the errand confided to the
inferior agent, the reader shall be made acquainted.
Barnaby was a spoiled, self-willed domestic, and so in truth
were all who held a place at Malmsey Manor; but when, in
the present instance, he left his master’s presence and hastened
to the court-yard, there was such a visible increase of his usual
self-sufficiency, the luckless understrappers in office received
so many supernumerary cuffs, that it was evident Barnaby
had sustained some recent honour.
“ What, ho there ! —knaves, loiterers, prattling fools, wasting
Sir Luke’s time, and neglecting my business, with a vengeance
to ye—fly, rascals fly ! sort Black Bess as if King C harles
were going to ride her, and see that girth, spur, and stirrup are
in order!” Barnaby was proceeding to give other directions
equally loud and lofty, when master Philip, who had been


lounging about the court-yard, approached, and accosted him
after his usual fashion.
“ And pray, old green-skirts, where may you be for V*
But he of hound and horn, was well acquainted with what
had occurred to alter their respective stations, and his reply
was worded accordingly.
“ A private mission, fair sir, a private mission,” said he,
slightly touching his cap, and turning on the instant to address
one of his myrmidons.
The young man slipped into Barnaby’s hand that which
makes all private missions public ; and the ambassador’s voice
regained its usually submissive key. “A letter, your honour,
nothing more, some trifling purchase in London —for the love
of life, master Philip, don’t break it open,” exclaimed the
huntsman ruefully, as he saw his companion after perusing the
superscription—“To Master Zachary Pantofle, tailor and
tireman, beside the Boar’s-head, near London Stone”—
deliberately remove the fastening from the epistle, and peruse
its contents, which were to this effect.
“ Master Zachary,—
“ By the bearer, who will pay you all reasonable charges for
the same, you will send down a full suit of good fashioned
clothes, made in the court manner, and beseeming occasion of
more state than ordinary. I pray you give good heed here-
unto ; you will but need to look on the bearer of this token,
to know the size of the garments needed, in expectation of
which, I rest yours,
“ Luke Malmsey, of Malmsey Manor.”
The mercurial Philip w>as ready to dance with delight, at this
unexpected opportunity of perpetrating a piece of mischief;
nevertheless, he concealed his evil intentions under a serious
aspect. “ Barnaby,” said he, “it is well you have shown me
this letter, there is a matter of consequence omitted ; how
rejoiced I am at the discovery—at what hour do you set forth ?”
“ At the break of dawn your honour.”
“ Then knock at the door of my sleeping room, when you
are belted and spurred; and now to bed, to bed, good Barnaby,
you will need repose,” said the youth, at the same time admi-
nistering a golden anodyne.
At the hour appointed, the unsuspicious messenger received
back the letter to Mr. Zachary Pantofle, bearing the following
addition :
“Varlet!
“ An’ thou hopest again to stitch doublet, or touch money of
mine, obey my orders touching Sir Luke’s bravery. Make
them, I charge thee, of patterns and colours most diverse and
strange. Where it is proper to use one yard of stuff, employ
two ; instead of a single feather, see thou dost mount the hat
with three or more, and adorn the other garments with lace
and gauds in proportion. Be obedient and discreet. Thine
of old,
“ Philip Malmsey.”
Leaving these several worthies to their various pursuits>
plans, and journeys, the scene now changes from the old
fashioned mansion, with its host of little chimneys, straight
walks, yew-tree hedges resembling walls of fortification, and
ornamented bears and griffins, to the elegant seclusions of
Stanley Pleasance.
The place accorded well with its name ; less, however, for
the size and decorations of the dwelling, than for the extreme
beauty of the grounds. They were laid out in the Italian
style of gardening, with terraces paved in mosaic work; small
pleasure pavilions embowered in groves, diversified with
verdant lawns, and choice flower-beds; jets d'eau ; marble
statuary; the walks were sheltered from the sunbeams by
interlacing trees, whilst a magnificent sheet of water formed a
perfect mirror to all the adjacent beauties.
In one of the pavilions which looked out upon the stream
we have mentioned, stood a youthful pair, for whom the place
appeared a fit home, as they, fit companions for each other.
The one was a graceful cavalier, attired with a costly simplicity,
which bespoke, as did his every look and gesture, noble birth,
and courtly breeding. His fair companion was beautiful, her
charm consisted in variety of expression and change of mood.
Her eye could suffuse itself with tears, her voice take the tone
of tenderness; but it was the transition to brilliant frolic, gay
coquetry, and sportive wiles, which rendered her so enchanting.
Like that of the cavalier, her attire was at once costly in ma-
terial, and simple in its fashion. Her robe was composed of
pearl-colour satin, and her bodice, of the same material, was
confined to her waist by a belt of twisted silk and silver ; whilst
the delicate hand and arm, whenever exposed (and that was
not seldom), seemed yet more exquisitely proportioned, from
their contrast with the massy folds of the large hanging sleeve.
Her dark and luxuriant hair was in part braided, and part, as
if it were forgotten, hung down to her neck in ringlets, con-
fined only over her brow by a single row of pearls.
It was the Lady Beatrice, and her affianced lover, for whom,
when absent, she sighed ; and whom she tormented when, as
at the present, he stood beside her, whispering true-love vows
and tender flatteries.
“Ah, now, good Julian, prithee tell me something new;
thou hast likened me unto a star and a flower, till I am sick of
my emblems—something new now an’ you mean me to listen.”
“ The lady Beatrice repays truth with kindness, and devo-
tion with respect,” said the cavalier, with a sigh ;—“ that is
new, for I never yet witnessed it.”
“ Grievous, yet passing good, that hit of thine ; but come
now, Julian,” said the lady, assuming a most provoking air of
languor and ennui, “ relate me some town news—some new
fashion, —I doubt I get clownish in my gear (a coquettish
glance at her elegant robe accompanied this sally,) or sing me,
an’ thou wilt, some new ditty of thine own—any thing to spur
on that lame varlet Time.”
“ Beatrice, Beatrice, what heard I of town news, or new
fashions, when thou art near; true love, lady, requires nought
beyond the presence of its object.”
“ Grammercy—but that doctrine suits not me,” replied the
mischievous beauty,—“now, here art thou, a reasonably good
companion in thy way—tolerably esteemed by me and mine—
yet I would some merry minstrel, or chance guest, or pleasant
comedy were here—for thy sake, too, good Julian ; —find you
not the Pleasance dull after Whitehall revels ?”
The lover was prevented making the expected answer by the
entrance of a third person.
“ O woman, woman !” exclaimed the intruder ; “as many
whims are thine as there be leaves on yonder aspen, and each
as lightly hung. Julian, boy, never heed her; trust me, she
can pine and sigh when thou art safely out of hearing,—nay,
Mistress Beatrice, never wrinkle your brow, and double your
hand—pretty, both of them, I grant; but come, now, crown
me for a wizard, —here are you sighing for change, affronting
your knight, abusing my poor Pleasance, and 10, I appear with
work cut out for you—breaking of hearts, trying of tempers,
masquing, and mischief, to your heart’s content.”
“ Now, Walter, dear Walter! an’ say you so?—and how
came it about ? oh, tell me, —in truth I love mischief!”
“Or thou wert not woman,” replied the last speaker, the
fair heroine’s elder and only brother, who had, as we have
seen, joined the lovers before they were aware, and so over-
heard his sister’s characteristic speech,—“why, Beatrice, thou
wilt hang thyself some day, in order to pass time.”
“ But the masque, the mischief, dear Walter !”
“ All in good time, girl,” replied the young man, with mock
gravity. “ First answer me truly—mean you to jilt Sir Julian,
or having made him serve a Jacob’s courtship, with a Job’s
patience, mean you at last to become his plague for life ?”
“For life, Walter, assuredly, if at all,” replied the arch
beauty.
“And you, sir knight,” said Walter turning to Julian, “ feel
you so secure in this lady's favour, that you dare allow the
approach of a rival; a gay and gallant suitor, who backs the
offer of his heart with that of a rich old manor ?”
“ Ah, Philip, frolicsome Philip!” said Beatrice with vivacity.
Her lover bit his lip.
“ The honour intended you is far greater,” replied Walter,
gravely.
“ Well, it matters not to me who or what may be the
suitor,” said Beatrice, frankly, for she had observed Sir Julian’s
momentary jealousy ; “ but read us your riddle, nevertheless,
good brother, if you mean us not to die with curiosity.”
“Well, then,” said he, drawing from his bosom a large
unwieldy epistle, written in the stiff hand used by clerks and
notaries, “this comes from the worthy knight Sir Luke
Malmsey, to the honourable son (save the mark!) of his
esteemed friend the late Walter Cecil; stating, in due form of
courteous speech, hisintention of speedily passing some days at
Stately Pleasance, in the hope that the honourable son, and
lady daughter of his late esteemed friend, wifi afterwards
partake of the cheer of Malmsey Manor.”
“I am as much in the dark as an owl at noon!” said
Beatrice, laughing, “ what brings the knight here, think ye,
and who did his errand ?”
“Truly, the messenger is worthy Mr. Jonas Cassocksleeve,
who hath hinted to me his own private belief that further
honour is intended our house—that his patron hath a passing
thought, a half-formed inclination, to make the Lady Beatrice,


of Stately Pleasance, the Lady Beatrice, of Malmsey Manor ;
orchards, paddocks, wainscotting, tapestry-hangings, hunting-
gear, and rusty armour included.”
A long and merry laugh burst from the young lovers, as
this inventory of the knight’s treasures was concluded.
“And this,” said Walter, drawing forth another epistle,
which from its smaller size, and scrawled characters, appeared
to be the production of a more fashionable scribe—“ this comes
by another hand, from frolicsome Philip, who, having got note
of his uncle’s intentions, prays me, on the score of old friend-
ship, to entreat thee, on the strength of thy womanly wit, to
give the old gentleman, during his abode with us, such awful
impressions of the blessed state of matrimony, as shall convince
him, that one wife would be a sorer evil than twenty nephews,
though every one were a Nephew Philip, and so he commends
himself to our good offices, of which, at present, he hath great
need, being forbidden Sir Luke’s presence and Malmsey
Manor till doomsday, unless means are devised to shorten
the term.”
“ I see it all—it is all planned—no masque will be half so
merry; dearest Julian, do but you and Walter play your parts,
and I engage to send him to his grave in a week ”
“ Gad-a-mercy, Beatrice!” said Sir Julian laughing, “I
like not the precedent.”
“Well, then, to his arm-chair, if you like it better!” and
the gay enchantress commenced a detail of those plans of pro-
ceeding, which, at present, it would be premature to disclose.
The reader will naturally suppose that Mr. Jonas Cassocksleeve
carried back to his patron many honourable messages from the
master and mistress of Stately Pleasance, assuring him of
warm welcome and greeting on his arrival.
Little aware of the plot in progress, or of the one already
effected, as soon as Barnaby returned from his mission, the
unsuspicious knight arrayed himself in the garments ordered
for him by his wicked nephew, and set forth on a slow, sleek,
unwieldly steed, that, taken in connexion with its rider, ap-
peared a moving elephant and castle.
Full well had Master Zachary obeyed Philip’s commands.
Sir Luke’s new suit, like that of the patriarch Joseph’s, was
“of many colours.” On his high crowned velvet hat nodded
three scarlet feathers, whilst the brim was enriched, both with-
in and without, with gold twist and spangles. His voluminous
cloak, of crimson stuff, was rendered yet more conspicuous by
a profusion of gold lace; his lilac satin doublet'was adorned
to correspond, and his galey-gascoignes (or, to modernize the
word, gally-gaskins), were made in that enormous fashion
which treacherous Master Zachary well knew to be obsolete
even amongst the vulgar. Every article was in character ; the
tips of the cuffs aspired to the elbow—the collar fell below the
shoulders ; the doublet drooped to the knees ; the cloak trailed
upon the ground, and the top of each boot resembled an open
warming-pan!
So graced, so gilded, or to use a more convenient metaphor,
so tin-foiled, not ten housewives’ pewter shone brighter than
Sir Luke; and he, being naturally vain and credulous, began
really to believe, on the faith of Barnaby the huntsman, Peter
the butler, and Deborah the housekeeper, that he was the very
pink and pattern of a gallant gentleman; one whom the Lady
Beatrice might be proud to see at her feet. His recep-
tion at Stately Pleasance tended to confirm him in his opinion
of his own importance. The master of the mansion testified
becoming anxiety for the honour of his alliance ; the Lady
Beatrice appeared delighted with his attentions, and required
them on all occasions, whilst Sir Julian was played off as a
scorned and presumptuous suitor; and so cleverly was the
plot contrived and carried on, that before he was aware, the
old knight found himself cajoled out of all his accustomed
comforts, and installed into the office of an accepted lover. It
was worse than field service to a militia man ; comfort and
honour, vanity and self-indulgence, were pitted one against
the other: and the suitor and the old bachelor had many a
conflict. The Lady Beatrice would never trust herself on
horseback without Sir Luke’s escort, and she foundit conducive
to health to ride several hours each day, and at a speed that
sorely annoyed the worthy knight’s bones. When dismounted,
the Lady Beatrice was passionately fond of walking, and no
arm was welcome but that which would have been most will-
ingly witheld. The Lady Beatrice grew troubled with fainting
fits at the smell of tobacco; and, to; rove his affection, Sir Luke
gave up his pipe; added to this, she suddenly lost her appetite, and
could no longer endure that other persons should eat a hearty
meal,and the knight, out of complaisance, was constrained to feed
like a sparrow. Yet so well did the wily maiden flatter his
self-love, whilst inflicting upon him every species of personal
torture, that he really believed that all things were what they
appeared.
Towards the end of a week thus spent, Beatrice perceived
by certain infallible signs, that matters were in such a state
that she might venture upon the coup de grace. She accord-
ingly selected a particularly sultry afternoon, and, immediately
after dinner, proposed a saunter through the grounds. Her
brother and Sir Julian, previously instructed in their parts,
were ordered to follow, and she set forth with Sir Luke deter-
mined upon being more fl itteringly tiresome than ever. It is
for the reader to judge of her success.
“ By my troth, madam,” said the knight, as he puffed along,
no bad representation of Patience in purgatory, —“ and by
your ladyship’s leave, I will doff this red blanket of mine,
before the sun coin its gold lace into marks,—marrv, I shall
drop.”
“ What throw off my favourite colour !” said his fair com-
panion, in a reproachful tone, “and a garment so becoming I
—La now, Sir Luke, the malapert Julian is jealous of that
cloak, and thinks it obtains for you the favour he craves in vain,
—by my word but Walter shall have its fellow.”
Flattered, but not consoled, the poor gentleman refastened
the ponderous garment, and trudged on beside his beautiful tor-
mentor, in a state bordering upon dissolution. “ Now a plague
on those idle boys!” said the lady, when they had wandered a
considerable distance from the house, “kind, kind Sir Luke,
it shames me, indeed it does, to ask it, —but I pray you just
step back and rouse them; say I wait on the south terrace, and
bid Mungo bring his guitar and join us there.”
The distressed knight groaned inwardly, and could scarcely
suppress the rising wish, that cloak, lady, Walter, Julian,
Mungo, and guitar, were quietly and together in the Red Sea.
Visions of departed comfort, pipes that he had smoked, dinners
that he had eaten, and sleeps that he had slept, crowded on his
mind ; and oppressed with the weight of his cloak, and the
weight of his thoughts, the poor cavalier was ready to weep.
He fulfilled, however, his mission, and with the young men and
the sable musician returned to the terrace, in the vain hope of
being allowed a short respite from exertion ; for, according to
the old song, his happiness did not consist
“ In motion, but in rest.”
But Philip’s guardian genius, the lady Beatrice, quickly
perceiving the weary and wobegone aspect of her knight, de-
termined to put forth all her wiles and wickedness, in order to
complete the good work she had undertaken. She gave Sir
Julian his lesson ; and immediately that cavalier, with humble
air, and downcast eyes, as though unworthy of the honour he
sought, approached, and prayed her to grant him her hand for
some short space, and tread with him a single measure, either
a stately galliard, or the more lively lavolta.
It were fitting in sooth,” replied Beatrice, with well-affected
scorn, “ to bestow such mark of favour on a gallant that loiters
oyer the dinner-board when hidden elsewhere by the lady of
| his suit—stand back, Sir Laggard! To him who is ever
I prompt in active service and knightly devoir, is that com-
pliment rightly due : I pray you,” said the lovely malicious,
presenting her fair hand to Sir Luke, and accompanying the
action with her most attractive smile —“ I pray you accept the
meed you have earned—Mungo, thy briskest air.”
It was in vain that the hapless lord of Malmsey Manor
declined the proffered grace, assuring the lady, with rueful
contortions of face, of his willingness to pleasure her in any
thing not impossible; of his utter ignorance of the graceful
art of dancing, in which he doubted not Sir Julian was well
skilled; his assertions were gainsaid; and he was compelled
to yield to his tyrant, and the lavolta, a whirling, twisting,
tee-totum kind of dance, bearing some resemblance to the
modern waltz, was performed by the ill-assorted partners, so
as to present a lively image of the tavern sign—an Angel in
conjunction with a Woolpack.
Hot, faint, breathless, ready to drop with fatigue. Sir Luke
heeded not the praises lavished on his performance by the by-
standers. As soon as the purgatorial exertion was concluded,
he hastened to occupy a seat which was formed in an angle of
the terrace wall; but his lady’s eye was on him, and precisely
as he was on the point of anchoring in the desired haven, just
as there remained but a step, a single step between his aching
bones and rest, the merciless Beatrice dropped her fan at his
feet! Sir Julian, who saw the manoeuvre, drew back to laugh
at leisure ; Walter peeped over his shoulder with well-affected
gravity, while the lady herself raised her pretty hand, and
chid herself for carelessness, and taunted the younger knights
with their lack of courtesy, and vowed that her good Sir Luke
would spoil her by excess of attention. Slowly, and with


labour dire, he prepared for a last effort of expiring com-
plaisance. Leaning greviously upon his walking-staff with
one hand, he lowered himself till the other reached theground ;
and then picking up the implement of mischief, restored it to
the author of his pain.
“Thou hast won Philip’s pardon, girl,” whispered Walter,
“ that last blow of thine drove the nail up to the head !”
He spake truly. We have heard of the temple that was
fabled to be constructed with such nicety, that a wren, perching
on one of its pinnacles, destroyed the balance, and overthrew
the fabric. Such effect did the incident of the fan produce
upon >ir Luke’s gallantry, It was the drop added to a brimming
cup —the touch giving to a falling column, —and when night
arrived, and he retired to bed (at Stately Pleasance, his only
place of rest), thus soliloquised “ the much enduring man
“And I, Luke Malmsey, to play the fool; —I that had been
my own master for fifty years and upwards—to ride, run, starve,
and dance, God wot! like an ape in a string!—a stone weight
have I lost in the last week —a stone ! may 1 never fill pipe
again, an’ I have not lost two. Oh ! Luke, Luke, that thy
old bones were but in thine own arm chair, in thine own
manor. Marry! whip me to death like a blinded bear first!
A wife! as many nephews as would require a ship’s rigging
for halters rather. Ah, poor Philip ! frolicsome as I was my-
self, but no worse than other youths—no worse say I ? not half
so bad ; poor dear boy, grieving, I’ll warrant, after my favour ;
laying plans to gain forgiveness ! my own brother’s son, too —
as worthy Mr. Cassocksleeve says, a living family picture ;
no, no, Madame Beatrice, I’m not to be cozened out of
Malmsey Manor by your bright eyes and cunning smiles. I’ll
sit still when I like, and eat as much dinner as I like—and I’ll
be my own master —ay, and I’ll have peace and quietness, and
therefore I’ll go home: —think upon that now!”
Sleep, instead of awakening, confirmed the knight’s wise
resolution. Business of importance (that lie of centuries)
called him home the next morning, and though the Lady
Beatrice complained much of his sudden departure, and testi-
fied becoming chagrin on the occasion, neither she nor her
brother threatened him with an action for breach of promise
of marriage.
Our readers will surely save us the trouble of winding up
our history. They will imagine for themselves, that Master
Philip had soon occasion to thank the Lady Beatrice for her
successful efforts in his favour; that he made as many promises
of future good behaviour as satisfied his uncle ; and kept as
many of them as satisfied himself; that worthy Mr. Cassock-
sleeve was speedily required to perform for Sir Julian and
Beatrice the clerical service which he had once anticipated he
should perform for that lady and his patron. If a great lover
of poetical justice, the reader may imagine yet further, that
though Sir Luke Malmsey was afterwards a frequent guest at
Stately Pleasance, he was never again required to dance the
lavolta, or refrain from smoking; or walk after dinner, or, in
short, do any one thing contrary to his own inclinations.
CROSS READINGS.
The neighbourhood and inhabitants of Parramatta were the
other day thrown into great consternation and confusion in
consequence of the glass gunpowder being prepared only
by T. Wilkins.
A glutton for a trifling wager ate up two old houses
just about to be pulled down.
A very numerous and highly respectable meeting was held
at the London Tavern for the purpose of forging a£s
Bank of England note. . .
A desperate character was brought before the sitting
magistrate on Tuesday charged with fifteen barrels of gun-
powder and other combustible matter.
Wanted immediately several hundred men to superintend
the education of four children who will be considered-as
one of the family.
It is strongly rumoured that the Americans presumptuously
intend to invade England with a large coal barge quite
new.
A man was lately brought to the Police Office charged
with having picked a gentleman’s pocket of -a fine chesnut
horse, thorough-bred, sixteen hands high. There were the
strongest proofs of his guilt.
A little favourite white mouse belonging to the promising
son of Admiral Higgins littered last week three waterfalls,
two mop-sticks, a nut, and a rope of onions.
It is stated that at the next anniversary meeting of the .School
of Arts a motion will be brought forward to consider the pro-
priety of petitioning the Governor for a new pair of boots.
Original Poetry.
THE EXQUISITE’S SONG.
[AUSTRALIAN SHEPHERD.]
Air —“ A Story I've heard in my Youth.”
Some sing of the passion of Love,
And some to bright Hope fled and gone;
I sing when there’s music above,
Of the joys of the Fops—being one !
For I’m blow’d if yon feller who writes
’Bout my dingy fop-case and new boots,
Thro’ spite (at my last cut) indites,
Being both out of pocket and suits.
I’m not quite six feet yet in height,
Altho’ I’m the height of a cane,
And he, to his sorrow, a fright,
For the ladies they all say the same.
He begs that the Legislature
Will take steps to banish our class,
Or else the dear ladies, he’s sure,
Must (cap-a-pie) steal as they pass.
Did any dear body e’er hear
Of a stigma like this on our class,
Whose heels are of leather—l fear
That his have too much of the brass.
As for arrows of Cupid—such stuff,
Which he styles quite an impudent strain,
You may guess why he’s put in a huff,
When he lacks of good sense in his brain.
That our friends in George-street us salute
With a bow quite polite in the fashion,
Is as true that we lay out in fruit
More than he the whole week for a ration.
So let him e’en rate on and write
’Gainst us exquisite gentlemen swells,
We’ll lounge all the day—and the night
We’ll dance with the elegant belles.
Repeat. So let him e’en rate on and write
’Gainst us exquisite gentlemen swells,
We’ll lounge all the day—and the night
We’ll dance with the elegant belles.
LATEST FROM MORETON BAY.
O came ye here the wool to shear,
Or herd the sheep with me, man,
Or was you down to Brisbane town
And did the steamer see, man ?
1 saw the steamer, hissing hot,
The sugar and the tea I got;
But room for cargo she has not,
For tallow or for wool, I wot,
From you nor yet from me, man !
And have you told the Captain bold
When he shall come again, man,
That he for me must in his hold
Good stowage room retain, man?
T saw the Captain, bold and bluff,
The Agent likewise, sure enough ;
The stores I saw all cramm’d with stuff,
And Squatters huff and puff and fuff,
That more they can’t contain man !
The Storekeepers were quite enrag’d—
But what more, can they do, man ?
The schooner Argo's been engag’d
To go a trip or two, man.
The place is full of loaded drays— *
The bullock teams choke up the ways—
And horses graze, and munch their maize,
And such a bustle all my days
I really never knew, man !
JASONSON.


MORAL MAXIMS.
alphabetically arranged.
No. 27.
Beware of a silent dog and still water.
Beware of a too-sanguine dependence on future expectations
Beware of bosom sins.
Beware of enemies reconciled, and meat twice-boiled.
Beware of him who regards not his reputation.
Beware of the geese when the fox preaches.
Beware to whom you commit the secrets of your mind.
Birds of a feather flock together.
Bitter pills may have blessed effects.
Blow the wind never so fast, it will lower at last.
Books, alone, can never teach the use of books.
Borrowed garments never fit well.
Varieties.
Children. —“ What a charming word is the one we have
written— * Children !’ It speaks of joy, of hope, of filial gra-
titude and love ; of happy homes, of cheerful fire-sides, of
family banquets, of festive holidays, of daughterly tenderness,
of the protection and defence offered by a son to his mother,
of tales told of seers and soothsayers, of ghosts and apparitions,
to pass away the last half an hour before bed time ; of pleasure-
parties, of healthful games and mirthful sports. Of fun and
frolic, and of the poetry and sunshine of life, without either its
tempests or its clouds. ‘ Children !’ There is something
talismanic in the influence, harmonious in the sound, cheering
in the promise, of that sweet word. Chaucer would make us
in love with them when he says—
* A little scole of Christan folk ther stood
Down at the further end, in which ther were
Children an hepe, comen of Christan blood,
That lerned in that scole yere by yere
Sweete manere doctrine as men used there;
This is to say to singen and to rede
As smale children don in hir childehede.’
* Bless their charming voices !’ say we. The notes of such a
band are worth all the songs of all the feathered songsters of
ten thousand groves. Childhood is the laughing month of
May; the butterfly’s merriest whirl; the lark’s highest matin
ascent and song; the green grass blade looking its variest
best; the pretty flower of the gayest dress, and refreshing
spring-time odour; the sunshine of a day without night, fatigue
without depression, of repose without care, and of bliss without
alloy. Childhood ! why its very showers are dewdrops, and its
passing tears are followed by refreshment and hope. We
never think of children without associating with that dear word
the sorrow of the patriarch, who exclaimed, in the bitterness
of his grief, that without them he was indeed bereft.—Rachael
might well weep for her offspring because they were not.
Benjamin, the beloved one, excited no excessive or unnatural
anxiety. Yes, blessed is the man who had his quiver full of
them, for he shall not be ashamed to meet his enemies in the
gate ; and he who described them as olive branches round about
his table had a heart as well as a harp, well tuned to all that
was delicate, refined, sensitive, graceful, and yet thrilling.”—
Frazer's Magazine.
“ What do you ask for this article?” inquired Obadiah of a
young Miss. “ Fifteen shillings.” “ Ain’t you a little dear ?”
“Why,” she replied, blushing, “all the young men tell
me so.”
Genuine Clownish Regret. —After passing the afternoon
in the wheat field, the children amusing themselves with
catching and examining the most curious butterflies and other
insects that came under their notice, the whole party, harvest
men and all, when the last load of corn had been ricked, sat
down to a famous old English supper of beef, pudding, and
home-brewed ale, that had been prepared for them in the
barn. Wliat a pleasure it was to see the tired, hungry, and
red-faced labourers pegging away at their bunks of meat and
brown bread! and how they laughed and quizzed each other!
One of the party, a long, bony, old fellow, who had pitched
many a sheaf from the cart to the rick, and who had eaten
enough to choke a wolf, particularly excited the merriment
of his comrades. “Why Jem,” said one, “you pick your
morsels loike a fine laady\ —your stomick seems delicate to-
day. ‘ Oh! he s finikin,” said another, “ because he’s in-
wited out to supper. He wouldn’t be so ongen-teel as to eat
in our common way loike !” “ Its quite pleasant to see him
so perlite,'’' said a third. “ And how daintily he sips his
liquor!—like a sparrow.” “ You shouldn’t wipe your mouth
with the back of your hand afore coompany, Jem !” “ Where’s
your thing-um-bob—your napkin ?” “ I say —old fellow—
you’ll never be able do to a day’s work if you play at knife
and fork in that ’ere dandy way ; —why you’ll never keep life and
soul together. See there!—there’s a little bit to put into a
gentleman’s mouth ! —it aint so big as my fist.” The only
answer Jem made to their jibes, (for he was to busy to talk
much), were, “ I’ll tell you wdiat, young chaps!—eat as I may,
I know you’d rather keep me a week than a fortnight. I don’t
get such a supper as this seven days in the week ; and its my
maxim to make hay while the sun shines!” As they were
clearing the board of the provisions, a lubberly young lad at
the further end, who had sat for some time quite silent,
and with his mouth wide open, suddenly burst into tears.
Hal-lo ! what’s the matter with you, Giles, what are you
howling arter?” “Why—why,” said he, sobbing, “aint it
enough to make any one roar to see all that nice pudding
going away, and I can't eat no morel" — Adam the Gardener.
“ A-lass ! A-lass!” as the old bachelor exclaimed, when
he felt a desire to marry. He made the same exclamation
after marriage, but spelt it differently.— New Yorlc Paper.
A Match. —lt is Betty’s “ Sunday out.” Betty is a good
g'rl, and, what’s more, good-looking, and moreover dresses
well, and further, is well shaped, eke respectable; and, in
addition, is beloved by every body, especially by the handsome
butcher in her street, who is single, and, in a moment when
butchers are as tender as their meat, popped the question
whether she had any prejudice against butchers ; and Betty,
like the tender creature she is, answered that “She had no
prejudice against any one when Crump, for that’s his name,
taking heart, asked her “If she would dislike being a butcher’s
wife?” and Betty, turning red, and then pale, and then red
again, replied that “ She would as lief be a butcher’s wife as a
baker’s for that, with the purvisor that she liked the butcher
better than the bakerso that the thing is as good as settled
that she is to be Mrs. Crump. And this is the reason why
she looks so red, broiling, and fluttered to-day. She has a
dozen friends to whom she must tell the important secret; they
live at all corners of the town, and miles apart; but she means
to visit them all: —if she does, she will make a circuit which
would tire an horse. I foresee that she will knock up at the
second or third stage, and be glad of a dish of tea, a happy
shedding of tears with some female friend at the turn in her
fortunes, and an omnibus back, that she may get home in good
time, as missus is mighty particular about servants coming
home early. Betty’s heart is full —too full, and so are her
pockets, crammed with apples, oranges, cakes, a top, two
whistles, and three balls, which came over her master’s wall
heaven knows how, mysteriously presents these for her
({ nevies and nieces, bless their dear little hearts!” Some of
her mistress’s cast-off things, a large lump of dripping, some
tea and sugar, (mind of her own purchasing), and an extensive
miscellany of broken victuals, are all done up in a bundle for
the poor widow who was like a mother to her when she was a
little motherless girl. She deserves to be Mrs. Crump,
especially as Crump is doing well, and is a worthy, honest
fellow. Why, there he is! he has met her “ quite promiskus,"
as he says, but any one may read in his eyes that that is a
trick of love ; he puts her arm in his, insists upon carrying
her bundle, and away they go—Betty blushing and embarrassed,
but happy—Crump proud of his dear little Betty, and not
wholly unconscious of the untarnished merit of his boot -tops.
It is a match.— Cornelius Webbe's Glances at Life.
Transcendentalism. — Instead of saving to a young lady
“ please to take my arm,” you should say in this polite age,
“ will you condescend so far to sacrifice your own convenience
to my pleasure, as to insert the five digitals, and part of the
extremity of your contiguous arm, through the angular aperture
formed by the crooking of my elbow against the perpendicular
portion of my animal frame,”
A young gentleman being pressed very hard in company to
sing, even after he had solemnly assured them that he could
not, observed testily, that they were wanting to make a butt of
him. “ No, my good sir,” said Mr. Colman, “we only want
to get a stave out of you.”
Notice to <£orrcsponfccnts.
“ Gaffer Gray.” —We can furnish diagrams, if the exact size be
intimated .
We acknowledge, with thanks, Articles from “ Gaffer Gray,”
“ iEneas,” “Frederick,” and “B.”


Shipping lEntflligcnce.
ARRIVALS.
Pecember 18.—The steamer Maitland, 103 tons, Captain
Parsons, from Port Macquarie the 16th instant, with sawn
timber, &c.
December 20.—The schooner William , 62 tons, Captain
Freeman, from Moreton Bay, the 13th instant.
December 23.—The steamer Sovereign, 119 tons, Captain
Cape, from Moreton Bay, the 19th instant.
December 23.—The brig Christina, 129 tons, Captain Saun-
ders, from Port Phillip, the 18th instant.
DEPARTURES.
December 19.—The brig Martha, 121 tons, Captain Bou-
stead, for Launceston, in ballast.
December 19.—The schooner Mariner, Captain Ford, for
Melbourne via Port Albert.
December 19.—The barque Clarendon, Captain Grant, for
Batavia.
December 19.—The brig William, Captain Thom, for Laun-
ceston.
December 20.—The barque Agincourt, Captain Neatby, for
Norfolk Island, with government stores.
December 20.—The brig Calypso, Captain Harold, for Port
Philip and Launceston.
December 22. —The brig Giraffe, Captain Harvey, for
Manila.
December 22.—The schooner Edward, Captain Tallan, for
Boyd Town, Twofold Bay.
December 22.—The brig Dorset, Captain Walsh, for Port
Adelaide.
December 23.—The schooner Wanderer, Captain Burns, for
the Mauritius.
33trtl)8.
On the 12th instant, at Ebenezer, Lake Macquarie, Mrs.
Norris, of a son.
On the 18th instant, Mrs. Dawes, Hunter-street, of a
daughter.
isTarrtngcs.
On the 20th July, by special license, at c t. Pancras Church,
Robert Hills, Esq., son of J. Hills, banker, Gravesend, to
Anne, eldest daughter of W. Nash, Esq., late of Sydney.
On the 18th instant, by Mr. J. Isaacs, Reader of the Jewish
Synagogue, Mr. D. Davis, of King-street East, to Eleanor,
eldest daughter of Mr. Elias Ellis, of the same place.
On the 16th instant, by the Rev. N. J. Coffey, Arnoldus
Henry Rudd, Esq., of Parramatta, to Miss Sarah Anne Marks,
of the same place.
On the 18th instant, by license, at St. Lawrence’s Church,
by the Rev. W. H. Walsh, Mr. Edwin Braim, Vicar of West
Wittering, Sussex, arid Perpetual Curate of Bailby, near
Selby, Yorkshire, to Miss Mary Bluck, of the Surry Hills.
Bead).
On the 18th instant, at his residence, East Maitland, after a
short but severe illness, Mr. Alfred Skinner, formerly of
Witney, in the county of Oxford.
©olontal ILttcrar)) Journal,
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
rpHE TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION to this Journal
JL are, Three Shillings per Quarter, in Town ; Country,
Three Shillings and Sixpence ; payable, in every case,
in advance.
Terms for Advertisements :—For one inch, and under
Three Shillings; and One Shilling for every additional inch,
each insertion. Advertisements will be received until Two
o’Clock on Wednesday afternoon; but cannot be withdrawn
later than Nine o’Clock on Wednesday morning. Adver-
tisements must specify on the face of them the number of
times they are to be inserted, or they will be continued till
countermanded, and charged accordingly.
All communications must be addressed to “ The Editor of
the Colonial Literary Journal, General Printing Office, 316,
Pitt-street,” (post paid.)
COX.O3TZA.3j IITESARY
BINDING.
THE Publishers have been requested by several subscribers
to make arrangements for the binding of the first Vol.
of the Colonial Literary Journal, w hich will be completed with
the Twenty-seventh Number. Subscribers are informed thai
the Publishers will be ready to receive copies to be bound to
order, by which, from the number already engaged for, a con-
siderable saving will be effected to each individual.
CHRISTMAS BALL.
A BALL will be held at A. Gray’s, Lighthouse Hotel,
Bathurst-street, TO-MORROW EVENING, (Friday,
27th instant.) Tickets to be had at Mr, Gray’s, or from any
of the Stewards.
Dancing to commence at 9 o’clock, p. m.
N.B. Quadrille parties held on Thursday evenings as usual.
COLOURED DAGUERREOTYPES !!
49, HUNTER STREET,
( Two doors from O' Connell-street.)
MR. G. B. GOODMAN has great pleasure to announce
to the public, that he has just received from the
Patentee in England, the new process, lately discovered, of
colouring the Daguerreotype Portraits, and having already
executed some very beautiful likenesses in this style, he will
be happy to submit them to the inspection of those who will
favour him with a visit.
It may be as well for general information to observe, that
these Portraits are taken almost instantaneously, and produce
as faithful a representation of the face and figure as is pre-
sented by standing opposite a mirror, being in fact the reflec-
tion itself fixed permanently in the glass or polished surface,
thus producing in effect a “ Second Self."
The pictures effected by this art are superior to the finest
engravings for delicacy of shadowing and minuteness of
delineation, and have hitherto only wanted colour to make
them perfect, which grand desideratum has been at length
achieved, and Mr. G. B. Goodman hastens to apprise the
public of this most important addition.
On account of the depression of the times the price will
still be limited to one guinea for the coloured likeness, includ-
ing a handsome gilt and morocco case.
Specimens to be seen at Mr. Isaac Levey’s, Draper, George-
street, and Mr. Aldis’s, Tobacconist; the Bank of Australia;
and at the Photographic Gallery, 49, Hunter-street.
Sydney, November 25.
WANTED, a Situation as Gardener, or a Garden, in the
vicinity of Sydney, by a professed and experienced
Gardener. Apply at this Office.
TO LET.
APARTMENTS suitable for Offices, together with Stable
and Gig House, if required, situate in a central part of
Pitt-street, near King-street, for particulars apply at the Office
of this Journal.
JOTJRITAI..
Colonial literary Journal.
Collector for Sydney Mr. Francis Wye.
Our Subscribers are requested to observe that the Quarterly Sub-
scription to the Journal is made payable in advance. The
present heavy expenses require this. Those therefore who have
omitted to pay their last quarter's subscription, together with the
present one in advance, are requested to fortoard the same to the
nearest Agent at their earliest convenience.
Agents for this Journal.
Sydney, Mr. W. Jones, Circulating Library, Brickfield-hill.
Parramatta Mr. Hugh Taylor.
Windsor Mr. Walker.
Bathurst Mr. Tress.
West Maitland Mr. Galloway.*
Camden, Campbelltown, Penrith, and
Liverpool Mr. C. Lester.
Gunning Mr. Hawthorne.
