

COLONIAL LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
“ NON TUA TE MOVEANT, SED PUBLICA YOTA.”
Vol. 11. No. 35.]
SYDNEY, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1845.
[Price 4d.
DECISION OF CHARACTER.
I.
The man of decisive character is necessarily endowed |
with many superior mental qualifications. Among |
these may be mentioned, more especially, that prompt- j
ness of action, which, combined with .punctuality, j
courage, and perseverance, must, in the natural pro- j
gress of events, ensure success in almost any under-
taking in which the possessor may embark. We will,
at present, turn our attention to- the quality first
specified.
To desire without acting, that is, without imme-
diately endeavouring to satisfy that desire, so as it be
reasonable and proper, is to deprive ourselves of that
which may be necessary to our comfort, but which
may never be again within our reach. It is a law of
our nature, that impressions which are not acted upon
become continually weaker, and therefore we are not!
only losing a present opportunity, so often as we fail
to carry our feeling into practice, but we are dis-
abling ourselves for future exertion, and hardening
our hearts against future impulse. In proof of this, |
we may remark, that the commonest observer of j
human action must daily observe men depriving them- !
selves of many benefits solely through a fatal habit of j
indecision. How invaluable a qualification, then, is j
it to be prompt in action! The man who is con-j
stantly in doubt—who is undecided in purpose, can j
never be brilliantly successful in operation. Such a j
one must, in fact, be incapable of managing great
affairs'. His knowledge may be extensive, his pene-
tration quick, his understanding enlarged, his imagi-
nation vigorous; his carriage may be candid and
courteous, generous and noble-minded; he may pos-
sess every more pleasing quality, and, in the eyes of
others, rival Nestor for sagacity, and Ulysses for
cunning; and still be worse than useless in action.
He may see clearly the advantages that must result
from the success of a scheme ; but he also perceives
with equal distinctness the obstacles which oppose its
execution. He weighs the one against the other, and
over again weighs them, but he cannot resolve on a
decision. He understands, perhaps far better than
others, all the niceties, —the logical distinctions, of
a question ;he is well acquainted with all the various
renderings of the text, so to speak ; he deliberates
upon and examines every point Avith the profoundest
acumen ; but nobody can be so little the better of a
piercing reach of thought, and a painful exercise of
the faculties of judgment: for, with him, the end of
all is still doubt and indecision of purpose, while, in
the interim, the opportunity for action is of course
lost; and he is left to enter upon the consideration of
some other matter with the same unprofitable waste
of thought. Affairs of importance, therefore, can
never be entrusted for execution into the hands of a
person whose judgment is thus paralysed and powers
thus enervated. However good his opinions and ad-
vice on a subject may be, the performance of the
matter must, alas, be entrusted to another, perhaps,
less capable, or less conscientious in principle.
Promptitude of decision and action are indispensable
qualifications for the securing of any great success in
life, on account of those sudden vicissitudes of fortune
to which all are daily subject, and which can neither
be foreseen nor provided against. To the soldier—
what virtues (laying aside loyalty and obedience) can
equal promptitude and resolution ? To the merchant
—what is more beneficial than decision of character ?
A prompt seizure of the favourable opening, or an
immediate acting upon some sudden turn of events,
has, indeed, to the latter, frequently proved, in its
golden results, a potent impetus towards the goal of
his endeavours. And, to both, presence of mind is
of greater advantage than a higher, but, in its effects
slower degree of sagacity.
While it is evident that the power of deciding in
sudden emergencies, and vigour in action, operate
materially to the success of our undertakings, we
must bear in mind that it is only forethought and
prudence that secure permanent benefits. These assis-
tant virtues will teach us not to attempt anything
rashly, but with due patience to await the proper
season for exertion. As the varying wind and tide is
not favourable at all hours to the outward-bound
mariner, so, while we are prepared for every emergency,
we should remember that not at every moment is it
prudent to heave anchor, and thoughtlessly to en-
counter the thousand peril's of the stormy ocean. The
present time needs not to be unemployed, for it brings
with it something needful to be done—some duty,
manual or mental, to be performed ; and if these be
not in their turn regularly accomplished, we may not
only miss the trade winds of prosperity, but, by
becoming involved in some treacherous current, with
damaged sails and unhinged rudder, run‘the risk of
becoming incapacitated for ever again seeking their
genial influence.
The prudent man, who diligently and promptly
performs the duties allotted him in due season, effec-
tually does away with the fear of embarrassment.
Few emergencies harrass him, for he is prepared for
them beforehand ; and whatever be required of him,


he i 3 ready to execute. It is unnecessary to delineate
the character and circumstances of the indolent and
foolish procrastinator. It is sufficient to say that, by
a natural and righteous retribution, his labour is in
the end doubled, and his sorrow increased fourfold.
To act wisely, therefore, in the business of life, we
must always combine forethought with promptitude ;
and a well-distinguished mind, which, at a glance at
each side of a subject, observes where difficulties
exist, and how they can be surmounted, is seldom at
a loss in acting promptly and yet prudently. Promp-
titude without forethought, or the power of acting
wisely on the spur of the moment, is worse than
useless; it is dangerous, for it diverges into preci-
pitancy. It is, also, often necessary, in human action,
to proeeed with delicate caution —to go on patiently
for a time in a dull routine of duty before the period
arrives that shall reward our efforts. In works of art,
this is peculiarly the case. The utmost patience is
here required, for it is impossible to perform in haste
anything that is superlatively excellent. Long labour
and careful execution are indispensable to success.
And in all ordinary professions prudence and perse-
vering industry are no less necessary.
CYPRUS.
CFrom the Church of England Magazine.)
Cyprus is the largest island in the Mediterranean connected
w ita Greece, except Candia or Crete: it lies about thirty miles
west of Syria, almost at an equal distance from Europe and
Africa. It is about one hundred and ten miles in length,
seventy-one in breadth, and is capable of containing a million
of inhabitants. Much uncertain conjecture has been hazarded
concerning the origin of its name. In ancient times it was
celebrated for the devotion of its inhabitants to the licentious
worship of Venus, whom heathen mythology fabled to have
here sprung from the foam of the sea.
This island was, most probably, peopled originally by the
Phoenicians, with whom, shortly after the siege of Troy (if not
before that period), the Greeks began to dispute for its pos-
session. At first, it was divided into several petty states, each
of which was governed by its own tyrant or independent
prince. Subsequently, the whole island was brought under
subjection, first by Amasis, king of Egypt, who compelled its
inhabitants to become tributary. On the invasion of Egypt by
Cambyses, the Cyprians readily surrendered to that monarch,
and afterwards formed a portion of the Persian empire. After
an ineffectual attempt to recover their liberty, they again
became subject to Darius. “ Whilst the enfeebled empire of
Persia was scarcely able to resist the attacks of the victorious
Greeks, an opportunity was afforded to a wise and politic
prince, Evagoras of Salamis, not only to recover his paternal
possessions, of which he had been deprived by the Persians,
but even to add considerably to their extent, and to raise the
name and glory of Cyprus to a much higher pitch than it had
ever attained before.” On the death of Evagoras, by the
hand of a domestic assassin, he left his dominions to his son
Nicocles, who, equally with his father, has been favourably
known from the writings of the orator Isocrates. At this
period Cyprus was tributary to the Persian empire, but it
afterwards was subject to the Greeks. On the dissolution of
the empire of Alexander, this island, together with Egypt,
“ fell to the lot of Ptolemy, and remained annexed to that
crown under his successors; till, on the death of the last
sovereign of the dynasty, it was seized by the Romans, and
created into a province of the empire under a prsstor. It had
been ceded for a short time to Cleopatra and her sister Arsinoe
by Mark Antony; but, on his overthrow and death, the island j
was once more annexed to the Romish dominions. We find
it governed by a proconsul named Sergius Paulus, when St.
Paul and Barnabas first preached the Gospel in the island
(Acts, xiii. 4. 7).” Under the Byzantine emperors, Cyprus
experienced several vicissitudes. It was invaded and ravaged
by the Saracens, for the first time in the reign of Constans,
and repeatedly afterwards. Richard Cceur de Lion having
conquered it from Isaac Comnenus, made it over to Lusignan,
king of Jerusalem, to which title he added that of his new
possession ; and both are still retained by the sovereigns of the
house of Savoy. Lusignan lost it to Saladin ; after which it
was taken by the Venetians, and finally was wrested from
them by the Turks.
Cyprus at present contains about sixty thousand inhabitants,
ten thousand of whom are Turks, and the rest are Greeks, who
are most oppressively governed by their Mohammedan masters.
Apricots are produced here in great abundance, together with
the beet-root, melons, cucumbers, and a very insipid kind of
mulberry of a white colour. Many different varieties of the
gourd or pumpkin are also used in great abundance for vege-
tables at table. The young fruit is boiled after being stuffed
with rice: it is said to be refreshing and pleasant, partaking
of the flavour both of asparagus and artichoke. The corn of
this island, when the inhabitants have courage or industry
enough to venture on the cultivation of the land, in despite of
their Turkish oppressors and the dangers of the climate, is of
the finest quality. The wheat, though bearded, is very large ;
and the bread made from it is extremely white and good.
Perhaps there is no part of the world where the vine yields
such redundant and luscious fruit: the juice of the Cyprian
grape resembles a concentrated essence. Dr. Clarke states
that the wine of the island is so celebrated all over the Levant,
that, in the hyperbolical language of the Greeks, it is said to
possess the power of restoring youth to age, and animation to
those who are at the point of death. With Englishmen, how-
ever, it is not a favourite beverage, as it requires nearly a
century of age to deprive it of that sickly sweetness which
renders it repugnant to their palates. Its powerful aperient
quality also is not likely to recommend it. The principal ex-
ports from Cyprus are wine, cotton, and silk.
There are two principal ports: viz. Larnica, on the western
coast, and Famagousta, its ancient capital (known in Grecian
history by the name of Salamis), which lies several miles to
the eastern part of the island, at the bottom of a large gulf.
It was formerly defended by fortifications, which were erected
by the Genoese and Venetians; but these are now in a state
of dilapidation. Nicosia, the present metropolis of Cyprus,
stands nearly in the centre of the island, on an extensive
plain: its w r alls are three miles in circumference, and upon
the greatly dilapidated ramparts are some pieces of artillery
bearing the arms of Venice : these lie in a miserably neglected
state, the mouths of them being nearly stopped up with rub-
bish, and their carriages broken. The appearance of the
town is beautiful and imposing, with its domes, minarets, and
palm-trees, all of which concur to form a grand and pictu-
resque view. The principal mosque was formerly the cathe-
dral of St. Sophia; and the grand ceremony of consecrating
the Cyprian kings was performed in it. Cotton prints are
extensively manufactured here.
The climate of this island is generally unhealthy, espe-
cially in the month of August: the heat is intense and
suffocating, producing a constant perspiration, accompanied
with a great degree of languor and a disposition to sleep.
Rain seldom falls during the summer months ; and there are
few springs and rivers in the island. At this season malig-
nant fevers are very prevalent, and almost constantly attended
with fatal consequences. Mountains of great altitude appear
in all directions; which, from being fiat on tneir summits, or
nearly so, receive the name of table-mountains.


DESIRABLENESS OF LIFE.
“Though in my flesh I feel the thorn,
I bless the day that I was born.”
Wesley.
In spite of the sorrows and disappointments which
every human being has more or less experienced, how-
few there are who seriously and calmly hate life.
Even those suffering mortals who scarcely ever felt the
beaming of the sun without being scorched, nor the
breath of heaven except in hurricanes, —they who
scarcely ever launched a hope on the billow without
having it wrecked, or cherished an expectation with-
out being disappointed,—even these cling to life with
yet more pertinacity than they did before they ever
felt a sorrow, or shed a tear. ’Tis true, the yoke of
oppression may be upon their necks, and the fetters
of tyranny may bind their hands, and the badge of
ignominy brand their foreheads, and they may talk
loudly of their hatred to life, and soliloquise with
Byron—
“ And know whatever thou hast been,
’Tis something better not to be
but if, in harmony with their philosophy, you lead
them to the stake, or bring them their coffin, and hand
them a dagger, they would go to the stake calling
themselves martyrs, or look at their coffin with horror,
and stigmatise you as a murderer. Yes ! all wish to
live, though they know that by prolonging life they
lengthen their suffering. The slave feels his fetters,
“ which bind him to captivity ;” but a captivity, the
horrors of which we know, is better than a captivity
the horrors of which we know not, —the lash of the
one may be a whip, the lash of the other may be a
scorpion ; this is the quagmire of despair, but that
may be the pit of perdition. And if for no other
reason than this, life is desirable, inasmuch as, with
all its woes, it has some pleasure, and though beyond
the grave there may be more, yet “ a bird in the
hand is worth two in the bush.” But life is desi-
rable on other ground. Sad as our lot may be, —
many as are the woes which crowd the path of life,
there are, nevertheless, pleasures and enjoyments
which far overbalance them. Seldom do we meet
with a thorn, without finding eventually that a rose
is growing on its stem. What gives more poignant
grief than separation of friends ? yet extatic happiness
may be the result. We have parted with those dear
to us as the blood which bubbles in our veins ; cruelty
or tyranny may have broken the band which bound our
happy spirits; many a mountain and many a billow
are now between us; the lapse of years has breathed
a blight on our acquaintance ; and they with whom
we once grew and gamboled, and with whom our
hearts were linked, are now strangers to our sight,
and almost to our memory. We cannot recall even
for a moment the once familiar face, and the kind
tones, —tones whose cadence once thrilled us with
their harmony, and to which we listened so lovingly,
spell-bound by the endearing witchery of tenderness ;
oh, we cannot recall them even for a moment, with-
out feeling sorrow and regret. But, as the proverb
says, “ it is a long lane that has never a turn,” and
we come sometimes sooner, sometimes later, to a
cross path, and there is a finger-post there, and on it
is written “to home;” and then it is we feel new
strength, and fresh vigour, and aw r ay we turn in the
path pointed, out, and joyously direct our footsteps
toward “the old house at home.” On, on, we
trudge, gaily and lightly, down the greensward of our
happy native valley : and even in the short season of
our return there is a buoyancy, and glee, and gladness
in our bosoms, which far overpays the sorrows of
separation. But we draw near our childhood’s home,
and as we bound forward we are recognised ; and then
there is the tumultuous welcome, and the hearty
greeting, and the earnest squeeze as hand joins hand,
and perhaps the thrilling kiss ; and under the rap-
turous influence of a heart-breathed ‘‘Godbless you,”
we are doubly, doubly recompensed for the hundred
sighs and thousand tears since our last adieu. And
so it is with almost every sorrow, “ They who sow
in tears, reap in joy.” Look at another of “ the
thousand ills,” such as sickness. Disease comes with
its torture and maddening agony : and it is under the
stern lash of affliction that we may feel some of the
direst sorrows that can befall our race. Cut off from
the intercourse of friends, and perhaps dependant
upon strangers for those kindnesses which help to
smooth and soften a sick bed, —left to the solitude
of self, and communion with our own minds, ren-
dered peevish by pain, and vexed with the recollection
of past follies and weaknesses, —then it is indeed that
we may number ourselves among the unhappy. This
is “ the day of darkness,” —yet, oh, consoling re-
flection, “weeping may endure for a night, yet joy
cometh in the morning,”—and the time comes round
when we again leave the sick chamber, and once
more inhale the free sweet breath of heaven ; we gaze
around us on the thousand beauties of the world, with
their countless charms, the bright sky above, the
green field beneath, the glad foliage arour.d, the
varieties of sea and shore, earth and heaven, on every
side in endless succession; we return to our old ac-
customed haunts, and again take our old places, but
with this difference, we are happier, and more cheerful,
and far more content than we were before we felt the
rod of affliction. “Our Father v r ho is in heaven”
knows what is good for us better than we know our-
selves, and since the mind is prone to become morose
and discontented, or proud and haughty, when attended
by nought but pleasure, so he sends sickness or ad-
versity to teach us the worth of health, and enable us
properly to appreciate prosperity; and then how
doubly sweet and delicious the draught of bliss after
| the “ gall of bitterness.” But, alas ! this happy re-
j covery does not come to all. There are some who
recline their aching limbs on their couch, and lay there
day after day, month after month, and year after year,
wasting and writhing under disease, and never rise
from their couch till they are carried to “ the house
appointed for all living.” Where, you will ask, is the
pleasure which is to balance their pain? Well,
wretched as at first sight you would think their case,
yet it is not all woe. No longer does the material
| sun beam its brightness, yet they have another sun
| whose rays illumine and cheer them ; ’tis true that
! often it is a treacherous sun,
“ Shining, but to leave more lonely
Those who hail its transient light;”
still it is a blessing, and if even we were sure of being
deceived, yet we should be loath to lose its beaming—
it is the light of hope. The sufferer lies tossing and
writhing on his couch, and hope paints a picture of
recovery, and the sufferer forgets awhile the sad re-
alities of his lot in the ideal world which hope has
1 conjured up. But there is a time when even hope


fails to charm, for disappointments begin to sting, and
“ hope deferred maketh the heart sick his pangs are
unmitigated, and with this additional one, the assurance
that he can never recover. Well, still he has ground
for consolation —as one hope sets, another rises. ’Tis
true, he can never again roam o’er the fields, or
wander through the glade; the pleasures of earth are
past, but its pains are almost past too ; a few more
heart-bursting sobs, and a few more pang-produced
groans, and he will
“ Clap his glad wings, and soar away
To regions of eternal day ;
No more disease, no more distress,
Nor sin, nor grief, can reach that place!
No sighs shall mingle with the songs
Which warble from immortal tongues.”
Thus, then, when we come to balance the pleasures
and the pains of life, we find that even the most con-
sumately wretched condition is not entirely without
pleasure, and though we seldom or never experience
pleasure so complete that we cannot fancy greater, yet
on the other hand we never meet with sorrow which
might not be deeper, nor suffering which could not be
more dreadful. The pleasures which arise imme-
diately out of the pains, are sufficient to balance them ;
and then, in addition to our hopes and day dreams,
there are all the blessed and blissful realities which
are to be found in earth’s pathway, the joys of love,
of home, of friends, of health, of food, of respect, and
“ the luxury of doing good,” with a thousand other
blessings, which make this world, in spite of its de-
generacy, still a lovely and desirable habitation.
FREDERICK.
History.
ANCIENT HISTORY : SECTION XXXIII.
THE GRACCHI AND THE CORRUPTION OF THE COMMONWEALTH.
1. The Romans had now completed the destruction of the
Carthaginian empire, and added to their dominions, Spain,
Sicily, Macedonia, Greece, and a large portion of Asia; toge-
ther with the Lesser Asia, which was left to them by the last
will of Attalus, king of Pergamus. These extensive conquests
were, in a moral point of view, much more prejudicial than
advantageous ; their simple manners became relaxed, and
Asiatic wealth and luxury proved destructive to Roman virtue.
We are no more to look for the noble qualities that adorned
the golden ages of the republic, but to trace the progress of
corruption and of violence.
2. At this period arose Tiberius and Caius Gracchus, two
noble youths, whose zeal to reform the growing corruptions of
the state precipitated them at length into measures destructive
of all government and social order. Tiberius, the elder of the
brothers, urged the people to assert by force the revival of an
ancient statute, the Licinian law, for limiting property in land,
and thus abridging the overgrown estates of the patricians.
A tumult was the consequence, in which Tiberius and 300 of
his friends were killed in the forum (b. c. 132). This fatal
example did not deter his brother, Caius Gracchus, from pur-
suing some years after a similar career of zeal or of ambition.
After some successful experiments of his power, while in the
office of tribune, he directed his scrutiny into the corruptions
of the senate, and prevailed in depriving that body of its con-
stitutional control over all the inferior magistrates of the state.
Employing, like his brother, the dangerous engine of tumul -
tuary force, he fell a victim to it himself, with 3,000 of his
partisans, who were slaughtered in the streets ot Rome. The
tumults attending the sedition of the Gracchi were the prelude
to those civil disorders which now followed in quick succession
to the end of the commonwealth.
3. The circumstances attending the war with Jugurtha gave
decisive proof of the corruption of the Roman manners.
Micipsa, son of Masinissa, king of Numidia, when dying, left
his kingdom to his sons, Hiempsal and Adherbal, and to his
nephew Jugurtha. The latter sought to usurp the crown by
destroying his cousins. He murdered the elder of the bro-
thers ; and the younger applying for aid to Rome, Jugurtha
was summoned to appear before the senate, whom he suc-
ceeded in bribing to a great extent, and they declared him
innocent of all culpable act or design, and decreed to him the
sovereignty of half the kingdom. This operated only as an
incentive to his criminal ambition. He declared open war
against his cousin, besieged him in his capital of Cirta. and
finally put him to death. To avert a threatened war, Jugurtha
went in person to Rome, pleaded his own cause in the senate,
and once more by bribery secured his acquittal from all charge
of criminality. A perseverance, however, in a similar train
of conduct finally drew on him the vengeance of the Romans;
and being betrayed into their hands by his own father-in-law,
Bocchus, king of Mauritania, he was brought in chains to
Rome to grace the triumph of the consul Marius, confined to
a dungeon, and starved to death (a.u.c. 651, b.c. 103.)
4. The ambition of the allied states of Italy to attain the
rights of citizenship produced the Social war, which ended in
a concession off those rights to such of the confederates as
should return peaceably to their allegiance. This war with
the allies was a prelude to that which followed between Rome
and her own citizens. Sylla and Marius, rivals, and thence
enemies, were at this time the leaders of the republic. Sylla,
commanding in a war against Mithridates, was superseded,
and recalled from Asia. He refused to obey the mandate;
and found his army well disposed to support him. ‘ Let us
march to Rome,’ said they, with one voice; ‘lead us on to
aveno-e the cause of oppressed liberty.’ Sylla accordingly
led them on, and they entered Rome sword in hand ; Marius
and his partisans fled with precipitation from the city, and
Sylla ruled for a while triumphant. But the faction of his
rival soon recovered strength. Marius returning to Italy, and
joining his forces to those of Cinna, his zealous partisan, laid
to Rome; and, while Sylla was engaged in the ILithri-
datic war, compelled the city to absolute submission. After a
horrible massacre of all whom they esteemed their enemies,
Marius and Cinna proclaimed themselves consuls, without the
formality of an electim; but Marius, in the seventieth year of
his age, died a few days after in a fit of debauch (b.c. 87.)
5. After having victoriously terminated the Mithridatic
war, Sylla returned to Italy in triumph, and, joined by
Cethegus, Verres, and the young Pompey, gave battle to the
party of his enemies, and entirely defeated them. His entry
into Rome was signalized by a dreadful massacre, and a pros-
cription, which had for its object the extermination of every
enemy whom he had in Italy.* Elected dictator for an un-
limited period, he was now without a rival in authority, and
absolute master of the government, which, of course, was
substantially no longer a republic. In the exercise of his
dominion, he deserved more praise than in the means of
acquiring it. He restored the senate to its judicial authority,
regulated the election to all the important offices of state, and
enacted many excellent laws against oppression, and the abuse
of power. Finally, he gave demonstration, if not of a pure
conscience, at least of a magnanimous intrepidity of character,
by voluntarily resigning all command, retiring to the condition
of a private citizen, and offering publicly to give an account
of his conduct. He died within a short time after his resig-
nation:—a man certainly of great strength of mind, and who
had some of the qualities of an heroic character ; but he lived
in evil times, when it was impossible at once to be great and
to be virtuous (b.c. 75.) T *
6. The death of Sylla renewed the civil war. Lepidus, a
man of mean abilities, aspired to succeed him in P : ? nd
Pompey, with superior talents, cherished the same ambit on.
While the latter was employed in the final reduction of Mith-
ridates and the revolted provinces of Asia, the conspirac;y of
Catiline threatened the entire destruction of Rome. It was
extinguished by the provident zeal and active patriotism of
the consul Cicero ; and Catiline himself with llis chief accom-
plices, were attacked in the field, and defeated Aotomua.
The traitor made a desperate defence, and died a better deaf
than his crimes had merited.
7. Julius Cssar now rose into public notice. ?y n ®»J™®
was an excellent judge of human nature, dreaded his abilities
and ambition, and had numbered him among the proscribed.
* This civil war cost the lives of 33 consuls, 7 P raet0 ”’ f°
sediles, 200 senators, and 150,000 Roman citizen. ; and thou-
sands were stripped of their property and reduced to poverty.


* There is many a Marius,' said he, *in the person of that
young man.' He had learned prudence from the danger of
tiis situation, and tacitly courted popularity, without that show
of enterprise which gives alarm to a rival. While Pomj ey
and Crassus contended for the command of the republic,
Cmsar, who knew that by attaching himself to either rival he
infallibly made the other his enemy, shewed the reach of his
talents by reconciling them, and thus acquiring the friendship
of both. From favour to their mutual friend, they agreed to
a partition of power ; and thus was formed the first Triumvi-
rate. Caesar was elected consul. He increased his popularity
by a division of lands among the poorer citizens, and strength-
ened his interest with Pompey, by giving him his daughter in
marriage. He had the command of four legions, and the
government of Transalpine Gaul and Illyria.
8. The military glory of the republic, and the reputation of
Caesar, were nobly sustained in Gaul. In the first year of his
government he subdued the Helvetii, who, leaving their own
country, had attempted to settle themselves in the better
regions of the Roman province. He totally defeated the
Germans under Ariovistus, who had attempted a similar
invasion. The Beiges, the Nervii, the Celtic Gauls, the
Suevi, Menapii, and other warlike nations, were all succes-
sively brought under subjection. In the fourth year of his
government, he transported his army into Britain. Landing
at Deal, he was opposed by the natives with equal courage
and military skill. He gained, however, several advantages,
and binding the Britons to submission, withdrew, on the ap-
proach of winter, into Ga 1. He returned in the following
summer with a greater force, and prosecuting his victories,
reduced a considerable portion of the island under the Roman
dominion (b.c. 54.) But the pressure of affairs in Italy
suspended for a time the progress of the Roman arms in
Britain.
9. Caesar dreaded the abilities of Cicero, who had opposed
him in his views of ambition. By the machinations of his
partisans, while himsejf absent in Gaul, jjhe procured the ba-
nishment of Cicero, and the confiscation of his estates, on the
pretence of illegal measures pursued in the suppression of the
conspiracy of Catiline. During an exile of sixteen months in
Greece, Cicero gave way to a despondency of mind utterly
unworthy of the philosopher. Pompey had abandoned him,
and this ungrateful desertion bore most heavily upon his mind: !
but Pompey himself, in the wane of his reputation, soon
becanqe desirous to prop his own sinking fortunes by the
abilities of Cicero, and eagerly promoted his recall from exile.
The death of Crassus, in an expedition against the Partliians,
in which he was defeated near Carrhse by Surena, now dis-
solved the Triumvirate ; and Caesar and Pompey, whose union
had no other bond than interest, began each to conceive sepa-
rately the view of undivided dominion.
GUY DE BERE.
Was it ever, dear reader, your fate to arrive, in a
usually lively county town, the day after a contested
election ? or in a watering-place hotel, when the steam
had been let off, a week after the closing of the gay
season'? If S o, you may form some notion, though
perhaps, after all, an imperfect one, of the contrast
afforded by the great Dr. Y ’s usually noisy and
overflowing schoolroom, when late on the afternoon
of a foggy and dismal day (the 24th of December
18—), its inmates were reduced to the only three
youths whom conveyances, more or less aristocratic,
had not already whirled off to more or less happy
Christmas firesides. J
Nor was the morning and evening aspect of this
huge deserted bee-hive more widely contrasted than
the fate and position of the lads, who yet instinctively
congregated in the scene of their mutual joys and
sorrows. While two of them, the indulged and way-
waid sons of a rich Shropshire baronet, were lost in
conjecture as to the possible cause of delay in the ar-
rival of the family chariot in which their thirty miles’
journey home was usually performed, the third—
t ough the son of an individual holding despotic
sovereignty, all but name, over a large territory in
America—had, alas ! in England no domestic hearth
to receive and compensate to him for the distance and
perils of his natural protectors.
The London merchant through whose agency he
had been placed at school,and his expenses there de-
frayed, had • just become involved in the extensive
failures of the period ; and the elegant villa of his
ward’s summer recreations, and the splendid town-
! house, where former Christmas fare had been luxuri-
ously enjoyed, were alike shut to him ; and with the
generous fellow-feeling inherent in English youth,
the sons of Sir Geoige de Bere had determined to
bespeak, or rather take for granted, their father’s
hospitality in behalf of their awkwardly-situated
foreign comrade, when the driving up of the long-
expected vehicle raised to their utmost pitch the joyous
anticipations of the inviters, and the modest misgivings
of the invited.
“ A chaise-and-four !” exclaimed the elder of the
young De Beres, going to the window ; “ better late
than never! But” (gazing in surprise at the descent
of a grave elderly man from the vehicle) “ what
bore of an old fellow is this he has sent to spoil
sport, and force a brace of us to go outside this cold
weather'?”
“ Hush, Guy, he’ll hear you,” was his quieter
though younger brother’s caution. But he might
have saved his remonstrance ; for minutes—hours they
seemed to the boys —elapsed ; the horses, jaded as they
were, had time to paw impatiently, and the post-boys
to walk, thumping their sides, in chill discomfort on
the frozen gravel, and yet no summons from Dr. Y—
gave the welcome signal for departure to the yet more
impatient group within.
The boys sat looking into the embers of the huge
decay ing school-room fire, as if there to read the cause
of this inexplicable delay, till strange misgivings,
they knew not exactly why, usurped the place of their
late buoyant anticipations, and Geoffry, the younger
De Bere, suddenly exclaimed, “ Suppose papa should
have been taken ill ? The man below looked just
like a doctor.”
“ And very likely indeed, if he were ill, that the
doctor of all people should leave him !” cried Guy the
elder and favourite, though with far less of sympathy
in his accent: “ To my thinking, the fellow in black
looked far more like a lawyer.”
And his prognostic—slightly founded prognostic—
was verified ; for, as he spoke, a message from Dr.
Y— summoned the brothers to meet in his room
their father’s solicitor. One glance at the conventional
solemnity of this functionary’s brow spoke volumes
to the already presaging face of Geoffry. “ Papa is
ill, sir !” exclaimed the warm-hearted boy. I see
it in your face already !”
“ Sir George has been ill—very ill,” said Dr. Y—,
anticipating with compassionate circumlocution the
stranger’s possibly abrupt reply; “ his sufferings,
which were great, are happily for himself terminated ;
but, my dear young friends, it has pleased God to
deprive you of a very kind father.”
Geoffry, susceptible of emotion as a girl, burst into
a fit of passionate weeping. His elder brother, with
more of manliness (he was seventeen, and Geoffry
three years younger,) maintained his self possession";
and though shocked and sobered, as any creature
possessed of common feeling must be, by intelligence
so disastrous and unexpected, Dr. Y , who, from
long habit, read boys’ souls as ready as he did their
exercises, saw, in the involuntarily kindling of his


proud eye, and the flush which, after a momentary
paleness, mantled on his dark cheek, that the sup-
posed heir of wealth and title was not insensible to
their sudden possession.
The task which lay before the doctor, already a
heavy one, was not lightened by the glance thus
afforded into his pupil’s mind and character. But his
nerves were steeled by its revelations to greater firm-
ness ; and with the very feeling, how proud w r ere
the hopes he was about to demolish, mingled, oddly
enough, less of regret and reluctance in their over-
throw.
“ Before you begin your melancholy journey,” said
Dr. y , “ under the charge of this gentleman
(who in the meantime will partake of some refresh-
ment in the next room), he has devolved on me, my
dear young friends, the painful office of unfolding to
you some particulars in your family history, with
which it is indispensable you should be made imme-
diately acquainted. Summon to your aid, Guy, the
firmness and self-possession of which you have just
given token, in bearing a misfortune, the greatest
that can befall a lad of your age. The blow which
this letter will inflict is of a different and more per-
sonal nature. Let me see that you can bear the loss
of wealth with as much equanimity as that of a
parent! Your trial, my boy, is a hard one ; but
think how much harder must have been the task of
penning this.”
The letter, whose unsteady characters too well tes-
tified the acuteness of the writer’s feelings, addressed
by the late Sir George to his eldest and darling son,
ran as follows •. —
t: When you read this, my dear and unfortunate
boy, the hand that penned it will be cold in death,
and the heart that bleeds to inflict an inevitable blow
will be insensible to its effects on the fondest object
of a father’s idolatry. Let your feelings be what
they may—and I tremble but to think of their poig-
nancy —oh ! do not suffer them to lead you to curse
an unhappy father, or to blight, with even a moment’s
filial impiety, the memory of a mother, alas ! ‘ more
sinned against than sinning.’
“ When that mother (in an evil hour for one at
least) joined her fate for life with mine, her plighted
and yet undissolved vows were another’s ; and ere
release from ties too sacred I now see and feel to have
been broken, could be accelerated,even by the mutual
wish of those long severed on every other point in
feelings as in affections, you, my first and best-beloved
child, saw the light!
« Even to one so young in the world’s ways, I need
scarce say more to convey the sad truth, that, loved
and cherished, nay, sinfully preferred, as you have
hitherto been, by one who felt that love w r as all, or
nearly all, ( he could bestow, another must be, in the
eye of the'law, my heir—your unconscious, loving,
and, oh! remember, wholly innocent Geoffry, whose
heart, I know, will bleed as truly in supplanting a
brother, as mine in disinheriting a son ! Be to him
still, as he, I am confident, will be to you, a brother.
Though he must, per force, wrest an empty title from
your grasp, deny him not the satisfaction of shielding
his father’s memory, and speaking peace to his troubled
spirit by sharing with you, when of age to-do so,
wealth amply sufficient for you both.^
“ As years, however, must pass first, I have not
been unmindful of a parent’s duty. The savings of
ten years' rigid self-denial are justly yours, and yours
so entirely —a debt rather than a bequest or boon —
that I clog them with no restraints, which I have
forfeited a parent’s right to impose. At eighteen, you
will, I know, be older in mind and character than
most lads of twenty-one. At eighteen years of age,
as many thousands will be yours, on simply claiming
them at my banker’s, unfettered by even any wish of
mine as to their appropriation, save a dying parent’s
prayer that the name and fortune they may enable
you to carve for yourself, may compensate those it is
his hard lot (a death-bed teaches me to say), the
penalty of his crime, to snatch from you.”
Ere’ the letter was well finished, the arms of the
warm-hearted younger brother were twined round
the elder’s reluctant neck ; and he was exclaiming,
with the generous recklessness which formed the chief
feature of his character, “ Never mind, Guy, what
anybody says, not even poor dear papa on his death-
bed ! How could he think for a moment I would rob
you of either title or estate ? I would not be Sir
Geoffry, and you plain Guy de Bere.”
“ You forget I am not even plain Guy de Bere !”
was the bitter reply of one to whom the idea of obli-
gation, even to a brother, would have been worse than
loss of name and birthright.
“ And surely you do not forget that we are bro-
thers still, Guy, let the world call us by what names
it will !” exclaimed the deeply-wounded boy, on
whose affectionate heart the sudden revolution in
their fortunes gave his hitherto domineering brother a
new and tenderer claim. “ Let us share, and share
alike, as dear papa advised and expected, whatever
he has left behind him ; and never vex me nor your-
self more about which is eldest or youngest according
to law. We don’t want the law to tell us how to
love each other ; and if the law wont let you be Sir
Guy, thank goodness it can’t force me to bq Sir
Geoffry 1” .
“ There is a law more sacred and binding, my
dear boys,” interposed the deeply moved Dr. Y r - ,
“ which summons you to the joint filial office of
laying in the grave the head of your late lamented
parent. With this law, the conventional ones of
man’s making have no right to interfere. As nothing
is known, Mr. B tells me, or even suspected at
Bere Park of any informality in the supposed line of
succession (though steps are already taken to estab-
lish it elsewhere,) my earnest advice to you both is,
to let things take their wonted course till the funeral
is over; and suffer no vain punctilio or cold consi-
deration of what may transpire hereafter, to mar the
solemnity of your joint act of duty to a parent, whose
errors, be they what they may, have originated in
misjudging affection.”
“ I will be an interloper no where, and least ot all
at my father’s grave!” was again the elder brother’s
bitter reply. In vain did the kind Geoffry plead—
the good doctor remonstrate ; misfortune had made
an independent man of his late pupil, and all he
would accept from his brother was accommodation in
the carriage for himself and their transatlantic com-
rade to the next stage ; where, stepping with him into
the first coach for town, he proceeded at once to the
house of the banker with whom was deposited his late
father’s destined legacy.
Having sent up the letter to prove his identity, he
astonished the man of money by the calm self-pos-
session with which he unfolded to him his unalterable
resolve of accompanying his young American school


fellow, in the first instance, to Cornwall, for instruc-
tions in mining, which it was part of the object of
the stay of the latter in England to acquire; and at
the expiry of a year, when his capital should become
due, to transfer it and himself, along with his friend,
to the country of his future adoption ; making it an
express''stipulation with the bewildered banker, as he
valued his deceased friend’s memory, and his injured
son’s future well-being, that he would preserve the
most inviolable secrecy to every part of the above
scheme.
“I was to be food for powder at any rate,” said
the proud boy bitterly; “ and whether I died fighting
for Spain here, or against her in some obscure skir-
mish out yonder, there’s none to care now. I dreamt,
fool as I was, of taking young J to Bere Park
for the holidays ; he’ll take me to Mexico for life in-
stead, that’s all ! you’ll give us the needful, sir, in
the meantime, surely, with eighteen thousand in
your hands, and an empire for security ? You would
not like to see me dabbling with Jews'?”
With a youth of such determination, and know-
ledge of so much (and that not the best) of this world’s
ways, there was nothing for it on the part of one not
“ having authority,” but to advise and suggest. Mr.
G consented to advance enough of the coming
year’s interest on the youth’s patrimony for present
subsistence in Cornwall, and the residue a year hence
for passage-money to America. On the disposal of
the capital, it would be time enough to consult when
it should become due. And, hardly knowfing whe-
ther to marvel at the boy’s iron nature, or admire his
self-possession in such trying circumstances, the
banker promised to keep his secret, and saw him and
his gentler comrade safe off for Truro.
It is not to be wondered that, in a mine at the
Land s End, they defied all the enquiries of Dr.
Y- and his sorrowing pupil, the now Sir Geoffry,
whom, on his return after the holidays, every nook
of the play-ground and school-room reminded of his
loved and lost brother. They had forgotten the name
of the banker mentioned in the baronet’s letter, and
if they had remembered it, they would have been
little the wiser.
In the meantime the year had come and gone ; and,
punctual to the day that made him eighteen, Guy
Molinaro (for he had taken and thus travestied his
mothers maiden name of “Miller,”) presented him-
self in Broad-street, to arrange about and receive his
unfettered bequest. He anticipated the cautious
trustee s objection to vesting the whole in so unset-
tled a country as Mexico, by coolly saying he had
decided on leaving £5900 in his hands, for an English
commission, should he live to return, and choose to
buy one ; or to devolv£, in case of his death, or its
remaining unclaimed for ten years, on his improvi-
dent younger brother. “ He’ll be out at elbows long
before that time,” said his precocious elder. “ Let him
come to school with his pockets ever so full, not a sous
was there in them at the end of the first fortnio-ht.
But to business. Twelve thousand you will be kind
enough to remit in good bills to Mexico; and the odd
thousand we shall require for outfit. We sail in the
Britannia from Falmouth. The miners and machi-
nsry ( J ;~ —’ s department) will be on board in a
■week. The arms and accoutrements are mine, and
we must join them in ten days at farthest.”
This has been a long story already, and to tell how
the young adventurer sped, would swell it beyond all
compass. Their arrival found the father of the one
on a throne, ephemeral, indeed, as it proved, but, while
it endured, omnipotent. All it wanted was that
strange lack in every El Dorado, namely, money ;
and, backed with twelve thousand pounds, the heir
apparent’s friend was an officer forthwith, and a co-
lonel ere long, with as many shares in the really
good mines his English skill and wealth helped to
refit, as in the speculative marts of Europe soon tripled
his capital. “ Make hay while the sun shines, my
good fellow,” wrote his astonished agent; “with
thirty thousand against your name in the bank of
England, you can set up for emperor yourself, if your
friend’s papa should be ousted.” The consummation thus
lightly alluded to was not far off, and a man too amiable
for the set he acted with, was thrown back on that
“post of honour” in civil commotions, a “ private
station.” With his retirement terminated all Guy’s
interest in the affairs of New Spain ; but the military
ardour there imbibed had taken deep possession of his
soul ; and disgust at revolutions becoming mingled
with admiration for the Spanish character, he longed
to transfer his sword to the cause of Spain. Hand-
ing over to his friend, for a large additional sum, his
remaining interest in the still prosperous mines
they had jointly explored, he joined—already more
than half a Spaniard in complexion, ideas, and
language—the Peninsular army. Previous, however,
to this removal, and to possible collision with his own
countrymen, he availed himself of a sabre cut in the
face in his last skirmish, which would enable him to
defy recognition, to desire the banker to spread the
report of his death, and to pay over on the faith of it,
the £5OOO which, as part of his father’s personals,
pride had always made him wish should fall to his
brother.
The deeds of gallantry of the pseudo*Spaniard
were not long in attracting the attention of the
English general P , intercourse with whom and
his staff so far revived in Guy’s breast long dormant
English feelings, that, avowing himself of British ex-
traction, and taking as such the well-known Irish
nom de guerre of Nugent, he joined as a volunteer the
standard of his country, and took a prominent share
in most of the battles in which it waved triumphant.
The contest ended, he came to England loaded with
ribbons and orders, with the fame and mien of a hero,
and what heroes seldom have to boast of—a large
and accumulating fortune. For this he had, from
the first, but one use and destination. He had not
lived so much of late among his countrymen without
inquiring, as if idly, about the proceedings of the
baronet of Bere Park, who —his elder brother being
now seven and twenty—had been some three or four
years of age. These had sufficed to make him as
Guy predicted, an embarrassed man -, not from either
vice or profusion in his personal expenditure, but
facility of disposition, and a foolish dislike of being
outdone in trifles by those around him. To this had
been added the expense entailed by a high connexion ;
for a certain Lady Anne—the daughter of a neigh-
bouring peer, designed from infancy, by county
gossip, for his brother—had transferred herself no-
thing loath, to the rightful heir ; for whom, to do her
justice, she had in their nursery days manifested the
most decided preference. This was, perhaps, the only-
part of his possessions which Guy had really, after
the first shock, grudged his brother ; and, forgetting
that his boyish love for her had never been returned,


he had a sort of satisfaction in learning that she was
extravagant, and had half-ruined her husband.
“ She must ruin him quite before I shall be satis-
fied !” was the ejaculation of one who, as the hand-
some and distingue millionaire, Count Nugent, was
the lion of the London Society, with which it cost
his sister-in-law so much to keep up. It was not
long ere an estate lying close to Bere Park, and most
desirable for its possessor, came into the market. But
while, even at the market price, it would have incon-
venienced Sir Geoffry to buy it (as Lady Anne and
her friends kept urging him to do) it rose suddenly
and provokingly in value, in consequence of the ap-
pearance of a competitor in the person of the Penin-
sular hero, Count Nugent, whose professed predilec-
tion for a residence in shire no one could com-
prehend. And still less was his conduct understood
when, after remaining in the field long enough to
raise the property some thousands to the purchaser,
he withdrew just in time to see it knocked down at
the enhanced price to Sir Geoffry.
It was the same on other occasions, when fate
seemed to take pleasure in pitting them against each
other. The death of a distant branch of the De Beres
threw open to sale a lot of pictures, of little value
save to the family, and which the baronet, who had
set his heart on them, expected to get for a song. No
such thing ! Again was Count Nugent in the way,
and the portraits, instead of pounds, soon rose to hun-
dreds ; and yet, after all, those hundreds came, as if
conjured thence, from Sir Geoffry’s already drained
coffers.
That bete noire, in the meantime, of Lady Anne’s
—that “ Mordecai in the king’s gate” of her hus-
-1 a’id’s—though declining to buy the estate next door
on which his fancy had been so ruinously set, chose
to plant himself down within six or seven miles of
them, by renting a deserted ducal residence ; and so
palpable was his design to outshine and eclipse the
former leaders of fashion in the county, that he was
said to be on the eve of marrying the duke’s deaf
daughter, that his wife might take precedence of poor
Lady Anne.
So far the report was premature, for he married
nobody ; but he was all the more the fashion, and
gave such fetes, and such balls, and such archery
meetings, that the very shoals of visitors who came
for them to Bere Park", cost its owners as much as
giving entertainments themselves. So they gave
them, in rivalry and retaliation, till the country sea-
son came to a close, and with it Sir Geoffry’s re-
sources for carrying on the war of reprisals either in
town or country. He had been content to drive a
pair, and his wife her pretty ponies, till Nugent’s
four long-tailed Andalusians astonished every gen-
tleman in the county. In short, the old country gen-
tleman had bled to the last diop for the'honour of
England and the family ; but the long purse and
cool insolence of the Don had long carried the day
hollow. And Guy de Bere had carried his point—
the vow of his proud heart on first reading his father’s
letter. His brother was a ruined man, and Bere
Park mortgaged up to its full value ; and he, through
the agents whom money can always command, the
holder of every shilling upon it. The place was ad-
vertised to be let; he took it, though with no seem-
ing thoughts of residence ; and while the owners were
sadly packing up for a ten years’ expatriation—new
furnished it from top to bottom —put the glass roof
Lady Anne bad been sighing for on her magnificent
conservatory —built the splendid billiard room to
match, which even Sir Geoffry had felt was a thing
to be desired rather than accomplished—re-stocked
the garden with exotic novelties from all parts of the
world ; then declared himself (still as Count Nugent)
the mortgagee over the property, and insisted on the
alternative of payment or possession. It was, alas !
as matters stood, no alternative at all ! and with a
sad and sorrowful heart, the title deeds of his pater-
nal estate were handed over to him.
He cast on them one proud satisfied glance; then
coolly folding them in a fresh envelope, addressed to
“ the Lady Apne de Bere,” and marked in the corner
with the initials (in a well-knowm school-boy hand)
of G de B , took the packet himself to Dover.
It was his purpose to lay them with his own hand
(watching his opportunity when the party should be
out) on his sister-in-law’s table at the Ship Inn ;
where she and her husband were awaiting the then
necessary fair wind for Calais.
He had not long arrived in the hotel, when the
hanger-on employed by him to give notice, reported
the lady and gentleman in No. 4, gone out with a
guide to see Shakspeare’s cliff. Fearless, therefore,
as regarded interruption, but stealthily as one whose
purpose, though not evil, yet shunned the face of day
De Bere entered the inn parlour, the sole English
home (thanks to him) of his only brother.
He came there, as we said, to deposit the packet,
unsuspected, and then depart —depart for ever! in the
same vessel, probably, which had been destined to
waft to distant lands the no longer beggared ones!
But on advancing into the large and dimly-lighted
room, he found, too late to retreat, that it was not
unoccupied. On the rug, at its upper end, two lovely
boys (attended by a vainly interposing nurse) were
struggling violently for the possession of a favourite
plaything: and as the interloper emerged from be-
hind a huge screen, he caught the words, which,
homely and familiar as they were in nursery par-
lance, fell, as if heaven-directed, on his ear and heart
Oh! Master de Bere, don’t be so spiteful aud
domineering ! Kiss little Geff, and give him his own
directly ; else mamma will never love you.
“ Who said I would not love my boy ? and why?”
cried a soft voice, as Lady Anne —too sad at heait foi
sight-seeing, and for whom some one else had been
mistaken by the scout —came forth “ like Niobe all
tears” from her dressing-room within. “ Not quar-
relling again? and your mother and yourselves going
to bid good-by for ever, perhaps, to dear England.
It was no marvel if that mother stood rooted with
surprise on the threshold of the room from which she
was emerging. A dark-haired and dark-browed
stranger was bending over her already reconciled
darlings. The little mouth of Geoffry, when held
up to be kissed, met a rougher lip than that of his
quick but warm-hearted playfellow, who himself was
snatched (with a wild fervour, which paled even his
dark glowing cheek) to the intruder s heart.
The elder child, meanwhile, with his wonted im-
petuosity, had possessed himself of the packet in the
stranger’s hand, and running with it to Lady Anne
(for whom he saw it addressed), and holding it p a}
fully over his head, cried out, “ You shan’t have it,
mamma, till you kiss and are friends with )Our own
dear Guy !” ,
“ Guy !” exclaimed the stranger, in a voice whose


to ip, changed and deepened as it ivas, brought earlier
nursery scenes at once to the mind of her who stood
before him. “ And is he really called so? and after
whom?” ? ,J
“ A brother, long since dead, of Sir Geoffry’s,
Lady Anne was mechanically uttering, like one who,
questioned in his sleep, replies in a dream, when her
eye resting suddenly on the initials in the corner of
the packet in her hand, she shrieked out, “Guy alive!”
and sank in stupor on the carpet beside her wonder-
ing children.
When she revived, two forms were bending over
her, whose softened images might be traced (as if re-
flected) in the infant pair at her feet. A tear had
been wiped from either manly cheek : a grasp of the
hand exchanged, that spoke the long estranged ones
brethren still. “ You will stay among us, Guy ?”
whispered Lady Anne anxiously, as —alluding to her
lately overheard regret*, and the contents of the yet
unopened packet—he expressed his joy that there
would be no longer any necessity for their expatria-
tion. “You, too, will surely stay in England ?”
But England, hard as it had been for one so happy
there as Lady Anne to leave it, had, alas! no charms
for Guy de Bere. A youth of high hopes dashed, a
manhood devoted to smoothing for a brother the road
to ruin, and thus earning a brief, and hollow, and
now detested triumph, these were not scenes and pas-
sages to blend with the hallowed feelings of home.
An hour of emotion, deep and precious though it be,
and dwelt on in after times as sacred, suffices not to
change the nature of man, and obliterate the stern
characters of a lifetime.
Circumstances, over w 7 hich he had no control, had
made Guy an early alien—he was a wanderer from
habit—from predilection, a soldier and a Spaniard.
He so far met the wishes of his gentle sister, as to
pass with them a few brief w r eeks in Paris, ere em-
barking at Nantes for Havannah. He returned to
the land which had first welcomed the outcast, and
fell really (as once fictitiously) in the civil conflicts
of New Spain.— Chambers' Journal.
Varieties.
Breach of Friendship. —ln noble and generous minds a
breach of friendship induces no breach of confidence. Claude
de L’Espine and an old friend, from whom ke had the mis-
fortune to be estranged for a time, were competitors for the
same place. He thus addressed him on the occasion : “ Sir,
you are soliciting a certain great situation, as well as myself.
I am well informed that yesterday, in an audience that you
had with his majesty, you endeavored to render me suspected
by him. Should I put into his hands the enclosed letters and
papers of yours, you would be most completely out of his
favour, and I should get rid of a base and insidious enemy.
I return them all to you. When you wrote me these letters,
and when you sent me these papers, we were friends; I ought
not, then, to make an improper use of that confidence with
which your friendship for me at that time inspired you.”
Nobody.— Every one’s experience must have convinced
him that there is no such arrant rascal in existence as Nobody!
The fellow is never easy but when in mischief. Is a street
door left on the jar at midnight—a plate chest ransacked —a
jewel box stolen or mislaid —a window broken —an orchard
robbed —or a slander spread abroad, ten to one Nobody is the
guilty party. Of all offences that are daily committed against
society, one-half at least are committed by this incorrigible
scamp.
Painters of History make the dead live, and do not
begin to live themselves till they are dead. I paint the living
and they make me live.— Sir G. Kneller,
“ A line will oblige,” as the dandy skater said when he
broke through the ice.
Waterloo.— “ What did you think ot Waterloo ? 1 re-
quired of aiv old fellow I found one morning digging in my
garden, where he had been hired to assist by the lazy head
gardener. “Think of it ?” said the old crab, stopping and
leaning upon his spade, “ I thought it hell upon earth. I was
utterly deaf with the continued roar of the artillery on one
side or thp other, and the sound of the musketry of the men
beside me. I could not see my companion’s face for one
minute (as he stood next me) for the thick smoke; and the
next I found him choking, retching, and vomiting in the
agonies of death, and clutching my feet. Sometimes a
shot went tearing through our ranks, and almost shaking the
part of the square where I had been for some hours standing,
seeming to loosen our files as it knocked the poor fellows head
over heels, like ninepins on a bowling-green ; and then we
heard the familiar tones of the old colonel, to prepare for
cavalry, as those devilish Cuirassiers poured upon us, and we
were wedged together in a wall of iron again to receive them.
That’s all I know about my feelings, sir,” said the old soldier.
“It was a terrible sight, and awful to look upon. It was
hell upon earth,” he muttered, as he resumed his spade, and
commenced digging with fearful energy. United Service
Journal.
Married and Pinole.— A bachelor being requested to
compare the married state with his own, he replied that mar-
riage was good for a man, better for a woman, but they were
best who were single; as, according to the Scotch terms,
bridegroom became a gudeman, the bride one half-better , and
the bridegroom’s man and brides’-maid were the best couple
of any.
Freemasonry.— To the philosopher’s attention the hidden
mysteries of nature and science 3re particularly presented with
a symbolical effect, at once producing the deepest impression
of the sublime truths of the creation, and thus preventing his
mind from imbibing any fallacious hypothesis of the intention
or object of the Great Architect of the Universe, in the forma-
tion of the various systems he has, in his Divine wisdom,
thought fit, by his “ creative fiat, to call from chaos into a
state of existence.” To the mechanic’s attention, the study of
geometry is presented ; and Masonry offers for the cultivation
of that science, such a series of symbolical arrangements and
illustrative lectures, as cannot fail to fix its principles upon his
mind with an unerring and definitive effect. To the politician,
Freemasonry affords the only safe asylum from the excitement
of public affairs; here, however opposed in the creed of the
political world he may be, he meets his Brethren with a sin-
cere and fraternal greeting, and it thus becomes to him a fer-
tilized spot surrounded by a troubled sea, on which he can rest
with contentment and happiness, defying the angry and
troubled waters with which he is surrounded, and daring them
to commit an inroad upon his peaceable possessions ; this spot
has a charm he seeks for elsewhere in vain.— Freemasons'
Quarterly Review.
Women and Horses. — A Comparison. —Next to woman-
kind there’s nothin’ so deceitful as horse-flesh that ever I seed
yet. Both on ’em are apt to be spoiled in the breakin’ ; both
on ’em puzzle the best judges sometimes to tell their age,
when well vamped up, and it takes some time afore you find
out all their tricks. Pedigree must be attended to in both
case, particularly on the mother’s side, and both require good
trainin’, a steady hand, and careful usage. Yes, both branches
require great experience, and the knowin’ ones do get bit
sometimes most beautifully.— Sam Slick.
The Liberality of the Landlords. —At a recent audit’
Mr. Tomkins returned ten per cent, on his rents to hi*
tenantry. The circumstance arose in the following manner :
—The tenantry consists of a second-floor lodger, at ten shil-
lings a week. The audit takes place every. Monday morning,
and one of the shillings out of the ten having been discovered
to be a bad one, it was sent back again to the lodger, being
equivalent to a return of ten per cent, on the rent to the
tenantry. — Punch.
Bad Times. —A young lady writes from Ohio, that com-
mercial affairs are so bad, that the young men are insolvent
and cannot pay their addresses.
Poetry. —There is something in the genius of poetry too
libertine to be confined to many rules ; and who ever goes
about to subject it to such constraints, loses both its spirit and
grace, which are ever native, and never learned, even of the
best masters; it is as if, to make excellent honey, you should
cut off the wings of your bees, confine them to their hives, or
their stands, and lay flowers before them, such as you think
the sweetest, and likely to yield the finest extraction; you had
as good as pull out their stings and make arrant drones of
them. — Sir W. Temple.


The Moralist.
HUMAN LIFE.
[concluded.]
To what end, O child of sorrow! wouldst thou live longer ?
to breathe, to eat, to see the world ? all this thou hast done
often already. Too frequent repetition, is it not tiresome ; or
is it not superfluous ?
Wouldst thou improve thy wisdom and thy virtue? alas!
what art thou to know ? or who is it that shall teach thee ?
badly thou employest the little that thou hast: dare not, there-
fore, to complain that more is not given thee.
Repine not at the want of knowledge; it must perish with
thee in the grave. Be honest here, thou shah be wise here-
after.
Say not unto the crow, Why numberest thou seven times the
age of thy lord ? or to the fawn, why are thine eyes to see my
offspring to an hundred generations ? are these to be compared
with thee in the abuse of life? are they riotous? are (hey
cruel ? are they ungrateful ? learn from them rather, that inno-
cence of life and simplicity of manners are the paths to a good
old age.
Knowest thou to employ life better than these 7 then less of
it may suffice thee.
Man who dares enslave the world when he knows he can
enjoy his tyranny but for a moment, what would he not aim
at if he were immortal l
Enough hast thou of life, but thou regardest it not: thou art
not in want of it, 0 man ! but thou art prodigal: thou throwest
it lightly away, as if thou hadst more than enough ; and yet
thou repinest that it is not gathered again unto thee.
Know that it is not abundance which maketh rich, but
economy.
The wise continueth to live from his first period ; the fool is
always beginning.
Labour not after riches first, and think thou afterwards wilt
enjoy them. He who neglecteth the present moment, throw-
eth away all he hath. As the arrow passeth through the
heart, while the warrior knew not that it was coming: so shall
his life be taken away before he knoweth that he hath it.
What then is life, that man should desire it ? what is breath,
that he should covet it?
Is it not a scene of delusion, a series of misadventures, a
pursuit of evils linked on all sides together ? in the beginning
it is ignorance, pain is in its middle, and its end is sorrow.
As one wave pusheth on another till both are involved in
that behind them, even so succeedeth evil to evil in the life of
man ; the greater and the present swallow up the lesser and
the past. Our terrors are real evils; our expectations look
forward into improbabilities.
Fools, to dread as mortals, and to desire as if immortal!
It is said, grey hairs are revered, and in length of days is
honour. Virtue can add reverence to the bloom of youth ;
and without it age plants more wrinkles in the soul than on
the forehead.
Is age respected because it hateth riot 7 what justice is in
this 7 when it is not age that despiseth pleasure, but pleasure
that despiseth age.
Be virtuous while thou art young, so shall thine age be
honoured.
MORAL MAXIMS.
ALPHABETICALLY ARRANGED.
No. 35.
Common sense is an inestimable companion.
Common sense is the growth of all countries.
Common swearing argues in a man a perpetual distrust of
his own reputation.
Companionship and good fellowship must not be mistaken
for true friendship.
Compare your griefs with other men’s, and they will seem
less.
Competency cau only be obtained by an attention to fru-
gality.
Compete not with persons who have means beyond thy
reach.
Complacency is more persuasive than anger.
Complain not of the shortness of life, but employ thy time
usefully.
Complaisance obliges while it reprehends.
Compliance with bad customs argues cowardice, and ends
with loss of character.
Compliments cost nothing, yet many people pay dearly for
them.
Select Poetry.
MATRIMONY.
Then come those full confidings of the past,
All sunshine now where all was overcast.
Then do they wander till the day is gone,
Lost in each other ; and, when night steals on,
Covering them round, how sweet her accents are !
Oh when she turns and speaks, her voice is far,
Far above singing!—But soon nothing stirs
To break the silence—Joy like his, like hers,
Deals not in words; and now the shadows close,
Now in the glimmering, dying light she grows
Less and less earthly! As departs the day,
All that was mortal seems to melt away,
Till like a gift resumed as soon as given,
She fades at last into a Spirit from Heaven !
Then are they blest indeed; and swift the hours
Till her young sisters wreathe her hair in flowers,
Kindling her beauty—while, unseen, the least
Twitches her robe, then runs behind the rest,
Known by her laugh that will not be suppressed.
Then before all they stand—the holy vow
And ring of gold, no fond illusions now,
Bind her as his. Across the threshold led,
And every tear kissed off as soon as shed,
His house she enters, there to be a light
Shining within, when all without is night;
A guardian angel o’er his life presiding,
Doubling his pleasures, and his cares dividing!
How oft her eyes read his; her gentle mind
To all his wishes, all his thoughts inclined;
Still subject—ever on the watch to borrow
Mirth of his mirth, and sorrow of his sorrow.
The soul of music slumbers in the shell,
Till waked to rapture by the master’s spell;
And feeling hearts—touch them but rightly—pour
A thousand melodies unheard before!
Nor many moons o’er hill and valley rise,
Ere to the gate with nymph-like step she flies,
And their first-born holds forth, their darling boy,
With smiles how sweet, how full of love and joy,
To meet him coming ; theirs through every year
Pure transports, such as each to each endear !
And laugliing r eyes and laughing voices fill
Their halls with gladness. She, when all are still,
Comes and undraws the curtain as they lie,
In sleep how beautiful!
SAMUEL ROGERS.
THE YOUNG MOTHER TO HER FIRST-BORN CHILD.
My sweet wee nursling! thou art sweet to me
As sun to flow’rs, or honey to the bee—
Music in summer bow’rs—the fresh’ning stream,
To bright wings dipping from the sultry beam—
Hope to the mourner, to the weary rest —
To the young dreamer—visions of the blest!
What are thou like, nestling in slumbers there,
So meek, so calm, so innocently fair?
What are thou like? A dormouse, sleek and warm,
A primrose cluster, or a fairy charm ?
Yes! thou’rt a charm!—a most mysterious spell!
Birds, beasts, and flow’rs, can just as ably tell
Why sunshine, scent, and streams, their pleasure be,
As thy young mother why she dotes on thee
With such unmeasur’d, fond intensity!
1 cannot look on thee, but springing thought
Perfumes the air with blossoms fancy-fraught!
I cannot think on thee, but life seems bright
With gushing sunbeams, ever new delight! —
Thou darling simpleton ! thy vacant eye
As yet to my long gaze makes no reply ;
Breathing and crying are thy only speech—
But, oh ! for me, what eloquence hath each !
Sounds of my first-born !—how my heart they thrill
Like the sweet babblings of a hidden rill;
A well of future blessedness art thou!
My morning star, my crown of gladness now !
MRS. G. G. RICHARDSON.


Notice to CDornspontfcrUs.
Our valued correspondent, “ 8.,” is in error as to the non-conti-
nuance of the subject referred to by him, as he may see by last
tveek’s, and this day's articles. We have therefore suppressed
our correspondent'’s very excellent remarks thereon until we again
hear from him.
The article on “ Colonial Literature” will appear next week.
The writer will perceive that his signature has been usually
changed, in consequence of a previous contributor having adopted
the same affix.
The •' Bushman’s Journal” may possibly be inserted at some
future period.
CATALLACTICS.
[continued.]
Our resolution to copy freely from Liebig is con-
stantly assailed from without and within. Agricul-
ture, which has been so long standing still, has in
other countries plucked up courage, and shows a de-
termination to go a-head, so that we have difficulty
in keeping pace with it. The ardour of our own dis-
position too impels us forward to investigate and ex-
pound new transformations, new applications of scien-
tific power, new and wonderful effects ! We have
since our last was written learned the extraordinary
facts attending the application of electricity to the
acceleration of the vegetative processes. On this
subject, and on the manner in which the electro-
magnetic fluid affects our Pen-Antarctic climate, we
shall have somewhat to say at a future time. Mean-
time “ we bridle in our struggling muse with pain”
—w r e restrain and reserve ourselves that we may first
lay a subsoil or groundlayer by a continuation of
our extracts. Our learned friend proceeds to say. —
One man consumes by respiration 25 cubic feet of
oxygen in 24 hours ; 10 cwt. of charcoal consume
32,066 cubic feet of oxygen during its combustion.
That the quantity of oxygen in the atmosphere does
not diminish in the course of ages—that the air at
the present day for example, does not contain less
oxygen than that found in jars buried for 1800 years
in Pompeii—appears quite incomprehensible, unless
some source exists whence the oxygen abstracted is
replaced. How does it happen, then, that the
proportion of oxygen in the atmosphere is thus
invariable ?
The answer to this question depends upon another;
namely, what becomes of the carbonic acid which is
produced during the respiration of animals and by
the process of combustion ? A cubic foot of oxygen
gas, uniting with carbon so as to form carbonic acid
does not change its volume. The billions of cubic
feet of oxygen extracted from the atmosphere, produce
the same number of billions of cubic feet of carbonic
acid, which immediately supply its place.
The proportion of carbonic acid in the atmosphere
may be regarded as nearly equal to 1-1000 part of
its weight. The quantity varies according to the
seasons ; but the yearly average remains continually
the same.
It is quite evident that the quantities of carbonic
acid and oxygen in the atmosphere, which remain
unchanged by lapse of time, must stand in some
fixed relation to one another; a cause must exist which
prevents the increase of carbonic acid by removing
that which is constantly forming ; and there must be
some means of replacing the oxygen, which is re-
moved from the acid by the processes of combustion
and putrefaction, as well as by the respiration of
animals.
Both these causes are united in the process of ve-
getable life.
The facts which we have stated in the preceding
pages prove that the* carbon of plants must be de-
rived exclusively from the atmospheie. Now, car-
bon exists in the atmosphere only in the form of car-
bonic acid, and therefore in a state of combination
with oxygen.
The formation of their principal component sub-
stances must necessarily be attended with the separa-
tion of the carbon of the carbonic acid from the
oxygen, which must be returned to the atmosphere,
whilst the carbon enters into combination with water
or its elements. The atmosphere must thus receive
a volume of oxygen for every volume of carboniG
acid which has been decomposed.
The life of plants is closely connected with that
of animals, in a most simple manner, and for a w'ise
and sublime purpose.
The presence of a rich and luxuriant vegetation
may be conceived without the concurrence of animal
life, but the existence of animals is undoubtedly de-
pendent upon the life and developement of plants.
Plants not only afford the means of nutrition for
the growth and continuance of animal organization,
but they likewise furnish that which is essential for
the support of the important vital process of respira-
tion ; for besides separating all noxious matters from
the atmosphere, they are an inexhaustible source of
pure oxygen which supplies the loss which the air is
constantly sustaining. Animals on the other hand
expire carbon, which plants inspire ; and thus the
composition of the medium in which both exist,
namely, the atmosphere, is maintained constantly
unchanged.
The atmosphere contains 3306 billion lbs of car-
bon : a quantity which amounts to more than the
w r eight of all the plants, and of all the strata of mi-
neral and brown coal, which exist upon the earth.
This carbon is, therefore, more than adequate to all
the purposes for which it is required. The quantity
of carbon contained in sea-water is proportionally
still greater.
The proper, constant, and inexhaustible sources of
oxygen gas are the tropics and w arm climates, where
a sky seldom clouded, permits the glowing rays of
the sun to shine upon an immeasurably luxuriant
vegetation. The temperate and cold zones, w'here
artificial warmth must replace deficient heat of the
sun, produce on the contrary, carbonic acid in super-
abundance, which is expended in the nutrition of the
tropical plants. The same stream of air, which moves
by the revolution of the earth from the equator to the
poles, brings to us, in its passage from the equator,
the oxyen generated there, and carbonic acid formed
during our winter.
The experiments of De Saussure have proved, that
the upper strata of the air contain more carbonic
than the lower, which are in contact with plants,
and that the quantity is greater by night than by
day, when it undergoes decomposition.
Plants thus improve the air, by the removal of car-
bonic acid, and by the renewal of oxygen, which is
immediately applied to the use of man and animals.
The horizontal currents of the atmosphere bring with
them as much as they carry away, and the inter-
change of air between the upper and lower strata,
which their difference of temperature causes, is ex-
tremely trifling when compared with the horizontal


movements of the winds. Thus vegetable culture
heightens the healthy state of a country, and a pre-
viously healthy country would be rendered uninhab-
itable by the cessation of all cultivation.
The most important function in the life of plants,
or in other words, in their assimilation of carbon, is
the separation, we might almost say, the generation,
of oxygen. No matter can be considered as nutri-
tious, or as necessary to the growth of plants, Avhich
possesses a composition either similar to or identical
with theirs, and the assimilation of which, therefore,
could take place without exercising this function.
The reverse is the case in the nutrition of animals.
Hence such substances as sugar, starch, and gum,
which are themselves products of plants, cannot be
adapted for assimilation, and this is rendered certain
by the experiments of vegetable physiologists who
have shown that aqueous solutions of these bodies
are imbibed by the roots of plants, and carried to all
parts of their structure, but are not assimilated, they
cannot therefore be employed in their nutrition.
Decayed woody fibre (humus) contains carbon and
the elements of water, without an excess of oxygen;
its composition differing from that of Avoody fibre in
its being richer in carbon.
It is true that the decomposition of carbonic acid
is arrested by absence of light. But then, namely,
at night, a true chemical process commences in con-
sequence of the action of the oxygen in the air,
upon the organic substances composing the leaves,
blossoms, and fruit. This process is not at all con-
nected Avith the life of the vegetable organism, because
it goes on in a dead plant exactly as in a living.
The substances composing the leaves of different
plants being knoAvn, it is a matter of the greatest ease
and certainty to calculate Avhich of them during life,
should absorb most oxygen by chemical action Avhen
the influence of light is AvithdraAvn.
The difference betAveen the composition of the
varieties of wood, and that of simple Avoody fibre,
depends, unquestionably, upon the presence of con-
stituents, in part soluble, and in part insoluble, such
as resin and other matters, Avhich contain a large
proportion of hydrogen : the hydrogen of such sub-
stances being in the analysis of the various woods
superadded to that of the true woody fibre.
The carbonic acid which has been absorbed by the
leaves and by the roots, together with water, ceases
to be decomposed on the departure of daylight; it is
dissolved in the juices Avhich pervade all parts of the
plant, and escapes every moment through the leaves
in quantity corresponding to that of the Avater which
evaporates.
A soil in which plants vegetate vigorously, con-
tains a certain quantity of moisture which is indis-
pensably necessary to their existence. Carbonic acid,
likewise, is also present in such a soil, whether it has
been abstracted from the air, or has been generated by
the decay of vegetable matter. Rain and Avell Avater,
and also that from other sources, invariably contains
carbonic acid.—Plants during their life constantly
possess the poAver of absorbing by their roots mois-
ture, and along with it, air and carbonic acid. Is it,
therefore, surprising that the carbonic acid should be
returned unchanged to the atmosphere, along Avith
water, when light (the cause of the fixation of its
carbon) is absent ?
Leaves generating oil of turpentine or oil of lemons
must possess a different nature from those in which
oxalic acid is formed. Vitality, in its peculiar ope-
rations, makes use of a special apparatus for each
function of an organ. A rose twig engrafted upon
a lemon tree, does not bring forth lemons but roses.
Many conditions are necessary for the life of
plants ; those of each genus require special condi-
tions ; and should but one of these be wanting,
although the rest be supplied, the plants will not be
brought to maturity. The organs of a plant, as well
as those of an animal, contain substances of the most
different kinds; some are formed solely of carbon
and the elements of water, others contain nitrogen,
and in all plants we find metallic oxides in the state
of salts. The food which can serve for the produc-
tion of all the organs of a plant, must necessarily
contain all its elements. These most essential of all the
chemical qualities of nutriment may be united in one
substance, or they may exist separately in several; in
which case, the one contains what is wanting in the
other.
If we knew with certainty that there existed a sub-
stance capable, alone, of nourishing a plant, and of
bringing it to maturity, we might be led to a know-
ledge of the conditions necessary to the life of all
plants, by studying its characters and composition.
GAFFER GRAY.
CHEMICAL PHILOSOPHY.
VEGETABLE OILS.
The odour or smell of plants and flowers is caused
by the presence of an oil, -which is found sometimes
in the seeds, and always in the leaves and blossoms
of odoriferous plants. The oils that are found in
seeds, have little smell or taste, they are called fixed
oils, because they do not evaporate. The oils which
are contained in flowers is the source of their sweet
smell, which oil is constantly evaporating and scent-
ing the air around them. These are therefore called
volatile or essential oils. All oils, whether animal or
vegetable, possess the same ultimate constituents or
bases, carbon, hydrogen, and generally oxygen.
Thus, the common train oil of the whale, and the
celebrated eastern otto of roses, owe their origin to
the same elements, but one is combined -with the
gross particles of animal fat, the other of the mild
juices of the rose. Vegetable fixed oils are sometimes
used for burning in lamps, and though there would
be no evaporation in their nascent state, as they contain
a greater proportion of carbon than the sweet oils,
they are decomposed when heated, and water with
carbonic acid issue forth in vapour; -whereas the
scent of floAvers is constantly evaporated by their own
latent heat, and is sent forth in such minute particles,
that rooms and clothing will absorb and retain them
for a considerable space of time. In hot countries
this oil is generated more profusely, and is proporti-
onally intense and durable.
The term of duration in all smells is in proportion
to the extent of the particles of vapour thrown off.
When these are very minute, they are capable of
entering into the fibrous substances of the finest linen
and silk, but if they pass off in gross particles, their
smell may be more powerful, but they will sooner
disappear, because they cannot be received into minute
spaces. Also the strength of the sensation of smelling
is exceedingly various, some persons possessing it
with great acuteness, others with indifference, and
some have not the sense at all. The multitudinous.


variety of scents is also a source of admirati©n, as is
the animal capacity of recognising their diversities.
The fixed oils are generally inodorous and mild to
the taste. The volatile are sometimes pleasantly
aromatic, and others are hot and pungent. The oils
obtained from the seeds of plants vary not only with
the species, but in the same seed, in reference to
culture and climate. These oils, as also the animal
oils, are called fat oils , because they are alike com-
bined with mucilage, which imparts to them a con-
sistency. They are extracted from the seeds by
pressure, and will combine with the different salts.
The product of their combination with potash or soda
is the scented soaps in common use. Linseed oil is
obtained in its greatest purity by cold pressure, but
heat is the usual application to that and all others •.
they are consequently less pure, as particles of matter
though very minute are still remaining in the melted
oil. The chief use of linseed oil is in the composition
of paint, though often used medicinally. It is the
seed of common flax, and might be luxuriously cul-
tivated in this country.
Sweet or volatile oils are usually obtained by dis-
tillation : these oils mixed with water are called
according to their kinds, as rose-water, lavender-
water, &c. They are sometimes mixed with alcohol,
and are then called spirit of roses, spirit of lavender,
&c. The sweet oil used at table, is a fixed oil ex-
tracted from the fruit of the olive tree, by pressure.
This oil preserves its limpidity and pureness longer
than any other, but varies greatly by its pressure
both as to temperature and force : that procured by a
gentle cold pressure is the best, and is known as the
virgin salad oil. It is used for all delicate machinery,
such as highly tempered steel, and for watch and
clock work. The rinds of oranges, lemons, citrons,
and several kinds of woods, such as the cedar and
sandal wood, also contain a volatile oil. Castor oil
is obtained from the seed of an Indian plant. This
tree also grows abundantly in this country, and many
idle hands might be employed with profit in connexion
with it. The croton tree is also a native of India,
producing an oil of' which one drop is considered a
sufficient dose as an aperient.
How beneficent, how mindful of the pleasures as
well as the comforts necessary for man, has been our
wise Creator. He has indeed given us richly to enjoy,
though not to abuse his productions. Every separate
organ and faculty of man has been cared for, and
innumerable sources of pleasure provided for him.
Let us not reject His bounties, who has given us in-
genuity to work out nature’s materials, and activity to
exercise our individual tastes. Every reflective mind
must see that each object in nature calls for our
exertion towards the general welfare. We see that
man is endowed with capacities to bring into his
service every part and particle of the globe on which
we stand, even the mighty powers of fire, air, water,
electricity, &c., as ivell as all the inferior animals
who possess any tractibility, and he has also power
in himself to rejoice in, and act up to, all that is pure,
wise, and exalted.
Now, when we look upon the great body of the
people of this colony, even those who walk in higher
ranks of life, we find them uninstructed in every
thing deserving the name of practical science; and
also the lack of perfection in every method of industry
is equally evident.
Let none of us then despise even the lowest grade
of information presented to us, when founded upon
known and recognised facts and principles, but rather
let us build upon them as upon a superstructure,
which shall by increasing energy and talent rise up
to the enjoyment of the possession of that knoivledge
which is the bulwark of our manufactories in our
native home, and is also a solid and lasting acquire-
ment of that happiness which is ever derived from an
acquaintance with the works of God.
God has never designed that we should be ignorant
of his works, or he would not have given us capacity
to understand them. The same voice, which says,
“ Thou shalt not steal” says “ Consider the lilies,
how they grow.”
B.
ASTRONOMY.
SECOND SERIES : NO. I.
It will be necessary before entering in “ medias res ”
to say a few words explanatory of the laws which
direct the whole planetary system j to gain this object
we must turn our attention to the Newtonian princi-
ple of universal gravitation, being evidently the link
in the hands of Omnipotence, which binds this vast
universe, and keeps the whole in harmonious arrange-
ment, extending its influence to the remotest planetary
orb. The action of this force is reciprocal, i. e., the
planets not only gravitate towards a general centre,
but that centre gravitates towards them, this double
attraction may be better understood by the terms cen-
trifugal and centripetal motions or forces, the for-
mer signifying according to its derivation —flying
from a centre —the latter, flying towards it. We are
taught by every day’s experience that all bodies have
a tendency to fall to the earth if unsupported, or in
other words, they are said to gravitate towards the
earth’s centre ; it was by reasoning on this appa-
rently trivial fact Sir Isaac Newton discovered the
mechanism of the universe itself.
Centrifugal power, when referred to the earth, is
denominated gravity, when to the sun, attraction, and
when to the planets, centripetal force.
Experience (as has been already observed) proves
to us the existence of some attractive force within the
earth itself, which causes every body to gravitate to
its centre, and science has discovered the ratio of this
attractive force; namely—that the motion of all bo-
dies falling is accelerated according to the odd num-
bers 1,3, 5,7, 9, 11, &c., that is, with what velocity
soever any body may commence to fall in the first
second, it will increase in the ratio of three times
that velocity in two seconds, five times in three, seven
times in four, and so on ; in other words, it will fall
four times as fast in two seconds as it does in one,
nine times as fast in three seconds, and sixteen times
in four, and thus the velocity w T ill continue to increase
according to the squares of the time ; this can very
easily be proved by standing on some known per-
pendicular height, and dropping from the summit a
heavy body, so that it may fall free of any interrup-
tion ; then multiply the space through which it falls
in the first second by the square of the number of
seconds ivhich may have elapsed in its passage from
the summit to the base; the product will give the
height required,
The apparent difficulty then will be to ascertain
how much any body will gravitate in the first second.
It has been incontrovertibly proved (from observa-
tions on the pendulum) that this gravitation amounts
to 16 ft. 1 in., in the first second, therefore, accord


ing to the above rule, the velocity will be 64 ft. 4 in.
in three seconds, 144 ft. 9 in. in four seconds, and
257 ft. 4 in. in five seconds, and so on in regular
and simple ratio.
We have been thus exact in this little matter from
a conviction of its importance, as also from the neces-
sity which exist to understand it properly, for, on it
alone hangs the mighty whole, the chain which
holds the universe in equilibrio, the golden chain—
so poetically described by Homer—which no powei,
no matter how great soever, could effect, but the Om-
nipotence whose power had poised it. In book viii,
line 1 8, Homer’s Supreme thus alludes to the force
which sways our material system —
Eid' aye, 7reiprj<Ta(r6e Oeoi, 'iva eidere ttavreg,
pr/v xpvoeu]v ovpavoQsv Kps/xdaavreg,
IT avreg 8’ 6eoi, nraaai re Qeaivai
’AXX' ovk dv tpvoair ovpavodev ireBiovBe
Zrjv’ inrarov ovS’ ei fiaXa 7ro\Xa napoire.
The reverse of this force is also true, namely —that as
gravity increases towards the earth as the squares of
the distances, so in like manner it decreases from the
earth, namely, by square roots ; thus, a body four
thousand miles from the earth—being twice as far
from the centre as at the surface—would gravitate or
weigh only l~4th what it would on the earth. If
8000 or three semidiameters l-9th—lf sixty semi-
diameters— the distance of the moon —6O x 60=
1-3600 part less. No direct demonstration can be
given of this, but direct conclusions can be drawn to
this effect from the oscillations of the pendulum,
which depends wholly on attraction according to
density, at the top of a mountain for instance, a pen-
dulum will not vibrate as rapidly as on a plain, the
length being the same. While at the poles it will
oscillate more quickly than at the equator, because it
will then be nearer to the earth’s centre, the polar
diameter being less than the equatorial.
With reference to the planetary bodies, thispporerw r er
is exerted—speaking technically —in the reciprocal
duplicate proportion of the distance, thus easily ex-
plained by supposing the distances to be represented
by the figures 1,2, 3,4, s—the5 —the second double of the
first, the third three times it, &c. Square these dis-
tances and w T e have 1,4, 9, 16, 25, w r hich place in a
fractional form thus, 1, 1-4, 1-9, 1-16, 1-25, and
we have a correct idea of the diminution of the at-
tractive force of the planets, for in the second instance
the force exerted is but l-4th of that on the first, in
the third l-9th, &c.
By bearing this simple explanation in mind, we
will be materially assisted in understanding the ex-
planations and assertions which are likely to follow,
because it-nvould be impossible to enter into long
mathematical proofs, without occupying more space
in the pages of our Journal than would be agreeable;
but any individual desirous of entering more largely
into this delighful science than we are likely to do
at present, will be "richly rewarded for his trouble,
for Astronomy offers a wider field for investigation,
thought, and admiration, than any other branch of
science. To reflect on the simple fact of the weight
falling to the ground, and to proceed onwards in our
reasoning till we are convinced, that by the same power
the w r hole universe is kept in harmonious activity,
must occupy and fill the mind with emotions pure
and delightful ; must humble man in his own mighty
ideas, yet elevate him to the great Divinity from whom
he derives his origin and being.
T. L. D.
EDUCATION.
To the Editor of the Colonial Literary Journal.
Sir,-—1 am truly sorry for the necessity of again troubling
you in the way of correction.
In the notice headed “ Education” in your Journal of
Thursday last, you place Porphyry Point on Paterson River.
It will afford me some consolation hereafter to find The
Lyceum well-known as “ beautifully situate on the right bank
of the River William.” —l am, Sir, your obedient servant,
HENRY CARMICHAEL.
Porphyry Point, William's River, (via Raymond Terrace,)
17 th February, 1845.
Shipping Entrittgnue.
ARRIVALS.
February 12.—The U.S.S. St. Louis, 26 guns, Isaac
M'Keever, from Macao the 9th of November, Manila the 22nd,
Batavia the 19th of December, and Hobart Town the sth inst.
—The schooner Edward, Truscott, from Boyd Town.—The
schooner Aurora, Turner, from the Bay of Islands the 29th ult.
—The steamer Maitland , Parsons, from Port Macquarie 11th
instant.
February 13.—The brig Louisa, Tucker, from Hobart Town,
the 7th instant.—The schooner Martha and Elixaheth, Devlin,
from Port Phillip the Bth instant.—The ship Margaret,
Courtenay, from the Whaling Grounds.
February 14.—The brig Essington, Griffiths, from Port
Fairy, the 7th instant.
February 15—The steamer Shamrock, Gilmore, from Port
Phillip the 9th and Launceston the 12th instant.—The schoo-
ner Mary Ann, Amner, from Launceston the 10th instant.—
The schooner Lady Leigh, Reid, from Kawau the 30th of
January, and Auckland the Ist February.—The brig Emma,
Fox, from Adelaide the 4th instant.—The steamer James
Watt, Taggart, from Hobart Town the 10th instant.
February 17. —The schooner Jane, Steele, from Moreton
Bay the llth instant.
DEPARTURES.
February 12.—The barque New York Packet, Hawkes’ey,
for London.
February 13.—The steamer Sovereign, Cape, for Moreton
Bay.
February 14. - The barque Emily, Greaves, for London.—
The barque Eweretta, Darley, for London.
February 16.—The schooner Star of China , Tinley, for Port
Nicholson and Nelson.
February 17. —The brig Bee, Unthank, for Wellington,
New Zealand.
28irtf)S.
On the 31st January at her residence, Colo River, Lower
Hawkesbury, Mrs. R. Pigou, of a son and daughter.
On the Bth instant, at Lansdowne, Goujburn, the lady of
N. C. Phillips, Esq., of a son.
On the 14th instant, at her residence, Botany-street, Chip-
pendale, Mrs, A. F. Wilshire, of a daughter.
J&arrfagts.
On the 10th of October, 1844, at Monkstown, near Cork,
by the Rev. J. De Courcy O’Grady, Richard Bourke, Esq.,
Barrister-at-law, youngest son of Lieutenant-General Sir
Richard Bourke, K.C.8., of Thornefseld, in the county of Li
merick, to Anne, second daughter of O’Grady, of Kilbally-
owen, in the same county.
On the 14th instant, by the Rev. N. Coffey, at the Catholic
Chapel, Parramatta, Mr. Francis William Kennedy, of Par-
ramatta, to Miss Mary O’Connell, of the same place.
On the 15th instant, by special license, at St. James’s
Church, by the Rev. Mr. Kemp, Joseph Peck Rees, Esq., of
Torpoint, Cornwall, to Miss Isabella Martha Eldridge, sister
to Mr. A. Eldridge, chemist, of this city.
JBeatfjs.
On the 9th ultimo, at Bridgewater, near Hobart Town,
after a short illness, Dr. Williamson, the medical officer in
charge of that station, and formerly of Morpeth, on the Hun-
ter River. The friends of Dr. Williamson in New South
Wales will cordially unite in the universal regret which has
been shown by the sister colonists at the premature death of
this lamented young gentleman.
On the 13th instant, at Eagleton, aged 65 years, Janet, the
wife of Colonel Snodgrass, C.B.


S’ASKIOWAB&B BANCXNQ.
MR. J. CLARK has this day re-opened, at his New
Rooms, Mr. Mackay’s Australian Inn, Parramatta, for
the Tuition of DANCING, in all its various branches, and the
most modern style, vis -.—Quadrilles, Sixdrills, Gallopades,
Mazourkas, Waltzes, Circassian Circles, &c.
Terms—One Guinea per Quarter, One lesson in each week.
Hours of attendance from Seven till Nine o’clock in the
evening.
Those Parents and Guardians who may honour him with
the tuition of their Children, may depend upon the strictest
attention being paid to their genteel carriage and deportment.
Private instruction to those who may not wish to join the
Classes, on moderate terms, at their residences, or at his
rooms.
Families and Schools punctually attended to.
Entrance to the Rooms by a private door in Church-street.
Fees paid in advance if required.
THE CHEAPEST SHOP IN THE COLONY, AND NO PUFF !
253, PXTT-STREET,
(four doors from market-street.)
rOSEPH SMITH AND WHITEHEAD respectfully
announce to their friends and the public at large, that
they have received by the Hamlet, and other late arrivals, a
large assortment of French satin, velvet, and gossamer HATS,
of the latest Paris and London fashions, to which the atten-
tion of the public is earnestly invited ; likewise to their very
superior stock of ladies’, gentlemen’s, and boys’ and children’s
black and drab stuff and beaver Hats, which they can finish
to any shape or size at the shortest notice. Judges’ and
Clergymen’s Hats made to order.
P.S.—From Smith Whitehead’s long experience in
some of the first houses in London, they are capable of fur-
nishing those parties who may honour them with their orders
with Hats of any shape or fashion, which for style and work
manship will bear comparison with any London Hats ever
sent to the colony.
THE X7QQI, SEASON - .
SETTLERS, Storekeepers, and all large consumers, visit-
ing Sydney, are invited to call and inspect the extensive
and well-selected stock of the undersigned, consisting of—
Hysonskin tea, ex Daivson, Isabella, Lord Amherst, Maid of
Athens, and Orwell, embracing those of the finest qualities
and all kinds of ration tea.
Souchong and congou teas, in chests and half chests.
Fine hyson and congou teas, in ten catty boxes.
Manila and Java coffee, raw and roasted.
Refined sugar, and Company’s pieces, in hogsheads and casks
Manila and Siam sugars, of all kinds.
Negrohead and Cavendish tobacco, in tierces, kegs, and boxes,
in or out of bond.
Boydell’s and inferior colonial tobacco.
Manila cigars, Nos. 3 and 4 A, in and out of bond.
Liverpool salt, coarse and fine.
Currants and pudding raisins.
Muscatel raisins and Jordan almonds.
An assortment of tea, sugar, and wrapping paper, of all kinds,
by the bale or ream.
Wax, sperm, mould, and dip candles.
Day and Martin’s and Williams’ paste and liquid blacking.
Patna rice, pearl barley, and oatmeal.
Soda, crystallized or carbonate.
Cream of tartar and tartaric acid.
Bluestone and corrosive sublimate.
Epsom salts.
Bottled fruits and pickles, of all descriptions.
Fine York hams.
ALSO,
A choice assortment of rums, brandies, and gin, in and out of
bond.
Sherry, old port, champagne, and claret, in wood and bottle.
Bottled ale and porter.
Which, with every article in the trade, are offered on those
liberal terms which have already secured for his Establishment
that decided preference which a discerning public have hitherto
so liberally awarded, and to maintain a steady continuance ol
which no pains shall be spared which ample capital and com-
petent skill can command.
ROBERT PORTER,
City Tea Warehouse, No. 424, George-street, Sydney
February 8.
SKSPORTikaa-T TO FB-SVZXX.IES.
THE undersigned begs thus publicly to announce that lie
has on Sale several trunks of Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
BOOTS and SHOES, which he is selling at from 25 to 50 per
cent, less than the Shoemakers have of late been charging. An
early call is solicited,
J. M. ILLIDGE,
George-strect.
Next door to Mr. I redale's,
Opposite the Market.
N.B.—Settlers and Families living in the country will
effect a great saving by purchasing their Boots and Shoes at
the above establishment.
OBSERVE THE ADDRESS!
ES “ GENERAL HEWETT "
PINT SALAD OILS, in three dozen cases
Spanish and French Olives
Smoked Herrings
Pine Cheese
Herring Paste 1
Anchovy Paste ! These are an excellent break-
Pate de Diable f fast relish.
Gorgona Anchovies. )
From the scarcity and excellent quality of the above selec-
tion, they can be most confidently recommended.
ROBERT PORTER.
City Warehouse, 424, George-street.
TO PRIVATE FAMILIES, &.C.
THE Undersigned are now prepared to supply their genuine
Wines, &c., at the following low prices for cash .
IN ONE DOZEN CASES, TO SUIT PURCHASERS.
ALSO,
Cases containing 4 port, 4 sherry, 4 Madeira, 245. per case.
Cases containing G port, and 6 sherry, at 245. per case.
Ale and porter, at 6s. 6d. per dozen, warranted equal to
Dunbar's.
Settlers, &c., can have either of the above wines forwarded
to any part of the colony upon receipt of a remittanca or order
on their Sydney agents.
TEBBUTT AND CO.,
75, King-street West.
N.B. If the above Wines are not approved of, T. and Co. still
continue their former practice of exchanging, or returning the
cash, without hesitation.
0 011 *' * * tpßOp) jo asn q?m ‘uqp3 s,ppq3
0 0 Z & aswaH J® asn qjiM «ugjoo pajunoui-iJnj
•pmd aq A‘pnj?Dods3i pm uoi?uo??e Xuoao aaaqM *sa?B.i
moj Sumopoj aqj ?e STYRaNDT lonpuoa pm aq ‘saun? jo
a?B?s paonpaa aqj jo aouanbasuoo ui ?eq? ‘ajdoad jo ifpoq p
pauopuaui-aAoqe aq? uuojut o? sSaq ‘TTIH NHoJL
-XaupX S
jo A? 13 sq? jo ajdoad jo ssb{3 jajooj puß aq? ox
•fowplig i 1 — 'Otf
iNaHHsnavisa onihs i nr a x sih xv
‘TTIH XIHOI AS
‘aaHSINHfli STVHSNnj
WALKER’S FikRIN\&CEGXJS FOOD
IS particularly adapted for sick children, and recommended
by the faculty in cases of dysentery. Sold by all the
Druggists and Grocers.
February Bth. 1845.
VikRRGVIS.EsS BUTTER.
THE Subsci-iber having contracted for the weekly supply*
offers the above at the lowest market price to his friends
and the public.
AVERY BENHAM,
No. 394, George-street.


isroTXCi:.
f|MIE Partnership hitherto subsisting between us, under
§ the style and firm of Benham and Co., is this day dis-
solved by mutual consent, and all moneys owing to the late
firm are 10 be paid to Mr. Avery Benham.
AVERY BENHAM.
ROBERT PORTER.
Witness— Charles Malpass.
February 1, 1845.
A VERY BENHAM, in reference to the above notice,
iA. returns his grateful acknowledgements to his friends
and patrons for the liberal support he has experienced since
his commencement, and in soliciting on behalf of himself a
continuance of those favours, assures them of his determination
to uphold the character of his establishment, by offering the
best articles at the lowest remunerating profit.
He has just received, ex the Midlothian, a choice assort-
ment of Italian goods, the inspection of which he respectfully
invites. He has also on hand *
Hysonskin Tea of every brand
Souchong and Congou ditto
Finest Hyson
Coffee, raw and roasted
Sugar of all kinds
Negrohead, Cavendish, and Colonial Tobacco
York Hams, Cheese, and Bacon
Butter, a weekly supply.
With every article in the trade; and he pledges himself that
by care in the selection and promptitude in dispatch, to merit
a continuation of the patronage so liberally bestowed on him-
self and predecessor.
£3* Country orders will meet with immediate attention.
No. 394, George street.
JUST U'SCSSVHXS,
FROM ONE OF TIIE FIRST HOUSES IN LONDON,
SIX CASJ'IS, containing a most elegant and varied assort-
ment of plain and drawn silk, satin, and fancy BONNETS,
which having been purchased in England upon the most ad-
vantageous terms, Mrs. Dobson can confidently assert that
the ladies of Sydney have now an opportunity (which has
never before been presented to them) of selecting really fashion-
able and rich goods, at prices very far below the cost of
making in the colony.
Show Room next the Commercial Bank, George-street.
Bridal and Mourning orders executed in the first style, upon
the most reasonable terms.
c. m. fsjjpjit,
Chemist and Druggist , 558, George-street, Sydney,
BEGS respectfully to announce that he has just received,
ex Sarah Birhett, an addition to his former stock of the
following scarce articles, the chemicals in which having been
obtained direct from the manufacturing districts in England,
C. M. P. trusts that great reliance will be placed on their
genuineness :
Hydriodate potash
Finest Turkey opium
Powdered opium
Ess. oil bitter almonds, or flavouring liquid
Creosote, camphor, calomel, quinine
Blue stone
East India rhubarb
East India gum arabic (for confectioners)
Spt. sal volatile
Spt. hartshorn
Moxon’s magnesian aperient
Beaufoy’s chlorides of lime and soda
Essence bergamotte
Essence lemon
Hydrocyanic acid (Scheele’s)
Lunar caustic
Muriate and acetate morphia
Liq. ammon fort.
Sweet spirits nitre
Sal ammoniac (in fine powder)
Henry’s calcined magnesia
Carbonate ammonia
Sublimed sulphur
Sedative solution of opium
Salts of sorrel, &c. &c.
A large assortment of the various essential oils, gums, and
medicinal leaves, barks, and flowers.
sm JBT.IES MURRAY'S
CONDENSED SOLUTION OF FLUID MAGNESIA.
rgIHE following is the character given of the Solution of
JL Magnesia by Dr. Comins, Inspector of Army Hospitals,
after twenty years’ exp?rience, in 1826 : —•
“ Belfast, October, 1826.
‘ Murray’s Solution of Magnesia is found particularly bene-
ficial as a pleasing sedative and aperient in all cases of irri-
tation, or acidity of the stomach, particularly during pregnancy,
febrile complaints, infantile disorders, or sea-sickness.
1 An ounce or two of the solution speedily removes heart-
burn, acid eructations, sourness, or irregular digestion of
females and children.
■ In the army, and at sea, it has been found to compose the
stomach in a few minutes after excesses or hard drinking.
1 The solution, of itself, is an agreeable aperient; bu f its
laxative properties can be much augmented by taking with it,
or directly after it, a little lemon juice, mixed with sugar and
water, or even cream of tartar tea. In this manner, a very
agreeable effervescing draught can be safely taken at any time,
during fever or thirst.
‘ The antiseptic qualifies of this solution, owing to the pre-
sence of so much carbonic acid, have been found very valuable,
in putrid and other fevers. As a lotion for the mouth, it
sweetens the breath, and the magnesia clears the teeth from
tartar. After acid fruit, it saves the lime of the teeth from
being softened.
“ For preventing the evolution or deposition of uric acid in
gout or gravel, the efficiency of the dissolved magnesia was
long since authenticated by Drs. M‘Donnell and Richardson.
“The solution has almost invariably succeeded in removing
the fits, spasms, head-aches, and gastric coughs, to which
delicate persons are subject, from acids and crudities of the
stomach and bowels.
“ William Comins, M.D.
“ To Dr. J. Murray.”
The President and meeting at the Royal College of Surgeons,
in December, 1838, unanimously approved of the Concen-
trated Solution of Magnesia, whereby infants, females,
and others, can be instantly relieved of acidities by a tea-
spoonful or two of this mild antacid.
The undersigned having received a large supply of the
genuine Murray’s Fluid Magnesia, will sell it at the home
prices, as under :
Half-gallon bottles 0 11
Quarts 0 5
One and a half pints 0 3
Pints 0 2
Half-pints 0 1
SIR JAMES MURRAY’S ACIDULATED SYRUP.
One circumstance is felt as particularly favourable to the
general adoption of Fluid Magnesia: when alkaline treat-
ment is not required, or when aperient or effervescent drinks
are more indicated, the Fluid Magnesia is the most eligible,
because the Acidulated Syrup, being separate, may be
added to the Solution of Magnesia, in any desirable propor-
tion, so that either the acid or the alkaline qualities may be
left to prevail, according to age and circumstances.
When taken with a small proportion of Acidulated Syrup,
the solution still contains a sufficient quantity of magnesia to
correct such acids as may be met with in the animal ceconomy.
The brisk effervescence directly settles the stomach : and
thousands of letters might be adduced to authenticate this
remedial property in cases of fever, nausea, or sea-sickness.
Sir James Murray’s Acidulated Syrup, in bottles, at 2<s.
each.
C. M. PENNY,
558, George-street, Sydney.
Agents for tSais Journal.
Collector for Sydney Mr. Francis Wye.
Sydney, Mr. W. Jones, Circulating Library, Brickfield-hill.
Parramatta Mr. Hugh Taylor.
Windsor Mr. Walker.
Bathurst Mr. Tress.
West Maitland > Mr. Galloway.
Camden, Campbelltown, Penrith , and
Liverpool Mr. C. Lester.
Gunning Mr. Hawthorne.
