

COLONIAL
LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
“ NON TUA TE MOVEANT, SED PUBLICA YOTA.”
Vol. I. No. 10.]
SYDNEY, THURSDAY, AUGUST 29, 1844.
[Price 4d.
INDEPENDENCE.
There cannot be a greater mistake, or one more
detrimental to the common good, than to imagine it
possible for man to live with pleasure and satisfac-
tion on his own resources alone; and the mistake
appears to originate in supposing it possible to become
independent of our fellows, by becoming at once the
centre and source of our own enjoyments. But this
supposition is wrong in its foundation, because it sets
aside the idea that man is a social being ; and it is
equally wrong in its conclusions, because in the pre-
sent relationships of society, it is utterly impossible
to attain independence ; for let a man rise ever so high
in the world, he can never rise so far above his fellows
as to be beyond the reach of their influence; and let
him sink ever so low, he can never be so degraded as
to be destitute of all influence himself.
Independence is a term often sadly misapplied—
often indeed outraged. Primarily inapplicable to the
circumstances of our being, the term has undergone
various prostitutions, until some have had the assu-
rance to call their arrogance and vanity by that
name; and obstinate dogmatism or unyielding self-
opiniatedness are excused by some under the same
cloak, rhe name too has been wrongly applied to
the dignity of the philosopher, who dares to guide his
conduct by the reins of his judgment, which might
rather be called nobility of soul, but cannot properly
be styled independence, because he owes to the occur-
rences in society those lessons which have taught him
wisdom, and consequently is dependent on his fellow-
beings for his experience and information.
\ ain are all efforts for independence on earth ; and
if so, what folly there is in arrogance or pride. Look
at man in his highest station, and see of what he has
to be proud or vain, and see how near he can approach
independence. A person might perhaps by a long-
continued course of integrity and benevolence merit
e V he respect of all those around him ; but
when he has risen to the highest pinnacle of earth-
born being, and the loftiest position of earthly excel-
lence, he is no more independent than when in
obscurity, and ignominy, and abject poverty.
He begg’d a brother of the earth
To give him leave to toil.
And in order to make him totter on his giddy height,
we have only to point him downward to “ the rock
from whence he was hewn, and the hole of the pit out
of which he was dug;” for then he will immediately
perceive that he is supported by the opinions of men
\ho are equally with himself liable to change; so
that the time when we have most to fear, and least
cause for independence of behaviour or exultation of
spirit, is when we have “ set our nest on high,” and
our mind reels and eye swims with the elevation of
our position.
Some think they are rapidly advancing toward in-
dependence, by extending their sphere of influence ;
and it is true that each person, individually, has in
this respect great power : he may be the centre of
much evil, or the centre of much good, but his in-
fluence is only the same which any of his fellows,
placed in similar circumstances, might possess, and
after all is not the result of his own power, but of his
position. His influence he does not owe to himself,
but to those by whom he is surrounded ; for where
would be his influence if his sphere of action was
done away with ? A centre without a sphere may
have power, but cannot have much influence ; and
though as the sphere is extended, that influence is
increased, yet no advancement is made toward inde-
pendence, because that power or influence being the
result of our relationships, the more we have the more
we owe, and the greater our dependence.
Others again imagine they do much for their in-
dependence, by grasping largely the riches of earth.
Such a one may look with much complacency on his
wide domains and far-spread possessions, and then
with the unfeeling smile of self-sufficiency, he may
turn and look down on his less fortunate fellow-
creatures, and stiffening his neck, and hardening his
heart, he may begin to live to himself in the sense of
selfish appropriation, and impiously dare to trample
on ground too holy for the tread of his vanity ; and
in puerile pride he may indulge in those feelings of
grasping arrogance which first
“ Brought death into this world, and all our woe
but he should be the last person in the world to dream
of independence, for wealth
“ Most fleeting
Is of all earth’s transient things
Awhile the fond heart cheating;
Then it takes to itself wings—
and be he ever so rich, his riches cannot screen him
from the “ sharp and numerous ills enwoven with
our frame,” nor yet from the daring of villainy, the
machinations of envy, or the calamities of earth.
Nay ! indeed, the richer a man, the more dependent he
is ; for in the preservation of those riches he is obliged
to employ others; he cannot cultivate his lands, or
repair his houses, or collect his revenue himself, so
that the more extensive his possessions, the more de-
pendent he is on others for their preservation,


But not only is it impossible to attain independence
in the present arrangements of this world, but even
was it possible, it would be inexpedient. Everybody
is liable to accident, sorrow, and suffering, and were
we not dependent on one another, we should be short
of a mighty channel of consolation and enjoyment.
In times of trouble particularly “ it is not good for
man to be alone.” What should we do in bereave-
ment, and disappointment, if it was not for the power
of sympathy ? and where should w r e find sympathy
if we were independent? It is this which excites the
heart to pity and tenderness : we are merry with the
gay, and weep with those in tears, because we have
felt the joys of sympathetic feeling, and know how
dependent we have ourselves been for consolation in
the hour of suffering. And who does not know the
value, the sweet, the kind, the consoling power of
sympathy at such periods ? Were we ever surrounded
by the malicious and unkind, or warped by disap-
pointment, or torn by envy, with the atmosphere of
our affections beclouded, and our minds tempest-
tost, or a prey to forebodings the most disheartening,
and fears the most distressing, and doubts the most
galling, with the listless, lifeless, joyless heavings of
a dejected spirit; under such circumstances, which
proved most calculated tolessen our sorrow—the sneer-
ing passing by of independence, or the bending con-
dolence of a friend ? Was it at such a time that we were
disposed to look down on others, or feed the pride of our
heart, by an assumption of independence ? No ! were
we the only sources of our own consolation, at such
periods, we should become a prey to our own sorrows
—brooding in “ single blessedness” on troubles we
could not remove—calamities w r e could not prevent —
stream-tides of sorrow we could not stem ; we should
soon learn to loathe our lives, and hate ourselves. It
may sound beautifully romantic to say of the discon-
solate fair one, in the language of a popular song,
“ She weeps in silent solitude!
And there is no one near,
To take her hand within his own
And wipe away a tear
and we might fancy that such solitary grieving would
be most soothing; but experience, whose voice is
louder than imagination, tells us that to bear our
burdens alone, is as undesirable as it is impossible.
Every human being is most assuredly dependent,
in a great measure, on his fellow-creatures for what
he enjoys—or what he suffers; how unwise then for
any one to assume or desire an independence which
is equally inexpedient and unattainable. But if,
after all, any one is still anxious for power, and wish-
ful for self-sufficiency, he must begin by pulling
down our asylums, and hospitals, and alms-houses;
and not only button up his pocket, but shut his eyes,
or the sight of the decrepid, the unfortunate, and the
infirm, will be a most unpleasant remembrancer of the
misfortunes
11 Which flesh is heir to.”
Being then dependent creatures, is it not the duty of
every one to contribute as much as he has power, to
the pleasure and edification of the community ; and
he who subscribes the most to the pleasure and profit
of society, is of all men most to be praised : he it is
who is justly a philanthropist and general benefactor.
Shall we not then say, “ Prosperity and success to the
Colonial Literary Journal, a bumper to its prosperity !”
“And he who will not pledge it is a churl.”
FREDERICK.
OPINIONS OF ARISTOTLE.
The works of this philosopher (of which, however, only forty-
eight exist, out of a multitude supposed to have amounted to
four hundred) embrace nearly the whole range of human
knowledge as it existed in his day. He was the inventor of
the syllogistic mode of reasoning, the principles of which he
lays down in his work on logic. In his books on rhetoric, he
has investigated the principles of eloquence with great accuracy
and precision, insomuch that they form the basis of all that
has since been written on the subject. His work on poetics
or rather the fragment which has come down to us under that
name, although almost entirely confined to the consideration
of the drama, contains principles applicable to poetical com-
position in general, and is equally distinguished for precision
and depth of thought. Those on ethics and politics are also
remarkable productions ; and although the former has been
effectually superseded by a more perfect system, the latter
contains much that is interesting, even at the present day.
In his metaphysics, he expounds the doctrine of Being, ab-
stracted from Matter, and speaks of a first mover—the life and
intellect of the universe, eternal and immutable, but neither
omnipresent or omnipotent. When treating of physics, he
does not in general lay down rules a priori , but deduces them
from the observation and comparison of facts. This being the
case, we might expect that such of his writings as relate to
natural history should contain much truth. He holds that all
terrestrial bodies are composed of four elements, earth, water,
air, and fire. Earth and water are heavy, because they tend
towards the earth's centre ; while air and fire, which tend
upwards, are light. Besides these four elements, he has
admitted a fifth, of which the celestial bodies were composed,
and whose motion is always circular. He supposed that there
is above the air, under the concave part of the moon, a sphere
of fire to which all the flames ascend, as the brooks and rivers
flow into the ocean. He maintains that matter is infinitely
divisible ; that the universe is full, and that there is no vacuum
in nature; that the world is eternal; that the sun, which has
always revolved as it does at present, will for ever continue to
do so ; and, finally, that the generations of men succeed one
another without having had a beginning or foreseeing an end.
He alleges that the heavens are incapable of decay ; and that
although sublunar things are subject to corruption, their parts
nevertheless do not perish ; that they only change place; that
from the remains of one thing another is made ; and that thus
the mass of the world always remains intire. He holds that
the earth is in the centre of the world, and that the First Being
makes the skies revolve round the earth, by intelligences which
are continually occupied with these motions. He asserts that
all the globe which is now covered by the waters of the sea,
was formerly dry land ; and that what is now dry land will be
again converted into water. The reason is this; the rivers and
torrents are continually carrying along sand and earth, which
cause the shores gradually to advance, and the sea gradually
to retire ; so that, in the course of innumerable ages, the
alleged vicissitudes necessarily take place. He adds that in
several parts which are considerably inland, and even of great
elevation, the sea, when retiring, left shells, and that on digg-
ing in the ground, anchors and fragments of ships are some-
times found. Ovid attributes the same opinion to Pythagoras.
Aristotle further remarks, that these conversions of sea into
land, and of land into sea, which gradually take place in the
long lapse of ages, are in a great measure the cause of our
ignorance of past occurrences. He adds, that besides this, other
accidents happen, which give rise even to the loss of the arts;
and among these the innumerable pestilences, wars, famines,
earthquakes, burnings, and desolations, which exterminate all
the inhabitants of a country, excepting a few who escape and
save themselves in the deserts, where they lead a savage life,


and where they give origin to olhers, who, in the progress of
time, cultivate the ground, and invent or re-discover the arts ;
and that the same opinions recur, and have been renewed
times without number. In this manner, he maintains that,
notwithstanding these vicisitudes and revolutions, the machine
of the world always remains indestructible. —Lives of Zoologists.
ON THE ACHIEVEMENTS OF THE ARTS
AND SCIENCES.
[For the Colonial Literary Journal.]
All the improvements in society that have a tendency
to increase the happiness of mankind, are more or less
indebted to the Arts and Sciences. The high and the
low, the rich and the poor, depend upon them for
most of the comforts they enjoy. It would be an
endless task —a task far beyond my feeble powers to
perform, to introduce to your notice many of the vic-
tories that the Arts and Sciences have achieved ; but
a few of them will serve to establish my position. Fix,
for example, on the Art of Printing—one of those
omnipotent levers that have such a power in exalting
the character of a nation ; trace its gradual progress,
and mark its indelible impression on society; con-
ceive the aggregate of intellect it has brought into
play ; and, the varied and powerful offspring it has
given birth to.
Before the invention of that art, Britain was sunk
in ignorance, superstition, despotism, and barbarity ;
but when .the Art of Printing appeared, like a mighty
luminary in its onward flight through a benighted
sphere, and resembling a comet streaming through the
depth of night, it extended its influence over a slum-
bering Avorld. Ignorance began to dissipate, and,
though slowly, yet securely, civilization began to
beam forth in her unsullied splendour— to serve as a
light to lighten and lead on the human family, in their
onward march to moral and intellectual dignity. And
such has been the case with every other country where
the extension and the freedom of the press are
encouraged and protected, for there the people rise in
opulence, intelligence, and moral worth. In Austria,
Russia, Spain, and Portugal, and certain other con-
tinental states, where the freedom of the press is
checked in the bud, and every noble sentiment crushed
in its infancy, there the people are poor, ignorant,
superstitious, and in bondage ; but if we wing our way
and mark the comparatively free states of America,
we shall find a people blessed Avith the Art of Printing
in its full, free sway, rising in wealth, in industry, in-
tellect, and all that mark the progress of a free nation
m the possession of a free press.
. Combine, with the Art of Printing, another of the
giant offsprings of the Arts and Sciences—the steam
engine, and by the combination of the two we have the
steam press a mechanic and scientific triumph that
seems to stand alone Avithin the compass of British
manufacturing industry, which we vieAv as presenting a
stupendous spectacle of moral power working through
the means of mechanism. By the introduction of this
machine for the provision of mental food, the three
grand requisites, speediness of execution, quantity and
cneapness of labour, are procured to an extent de-
manded by the necessities of the age ; and without the
aid of such a mighty power, the tide of knowledge
and human improvement would be greatly retarded, and
the evil consequences of such a deficiency would fall
on the general population,
Let us turn to Chemistry *. scarcely sixty years have
elapsed since this science began to make decided pro-
gression in its onward movement. But once in motion,
she has increased in strength, and extended her kingdom
through the wide range of terrestrial nature, and
unveiled many of the mysteries of the atmospheric
fluid. In almost all the manufacturing establishments
she lends her aid to the production of the various
fabrics, and united with the different arts, she contri-
butes her quantum to the general stock of happiness.
The human frame has been investigated and analysed
by her assistance, and by combining her efforts with
the sciences of Anatomy, Physiology, and Phrenology,
the whole have rendered human life more valuable ;
presented laws whereby man may be enabled to walk
in harmony with nature, and thereby developed the
principles that procure health and happiness.
CALEDONIA.
History.
ANCIENT HISTORY: SECTION VIII.
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE GREEK COLONIES.
1. About eighty years after the taking of Troy began
the war of the Heraclidse. Hercules, the son of
Amphitryon, sovereign of My cense, Avas banished from
his country with all his family, while the crown was
possessed by an usurper. His descendants, Cresphon-
tes and Aristodemus, after the period of a century,
returned to Peloponnesus, and, subduing all their
enemies, took possession of the states of Mycenae,
Argos, and Lacedaemon. Cresphontes seized Mycenai
and Argos, and the two sons of Aristodemus, Eurys-
thenes and Procles, divided Lacedaemon.
2. A long period of civil war and bloodshed suc-
ceeded, and Greece, divided among a number of petty
tyrants, who maintained a constant war with their
neighbours, suffered equally the miseries of oppression
and anarchy, and was again thrown back into barba-
rism. This state of society at last became insupporta-
ble, and the very name of king became odious.
The Heraclidse, in their war against the Athe-
nians, Avere assured of success by the oracle, provided
they did not kill Codrus, then king of Athens. But
he ha\ r ing become acquainted Avith this condition,
sheAved a singular example of patriotism, in de\ 7 oting
himself to death for his country. Medon and Nileus,
the sons of Codrus, disputed the succession to the
croAvn, but the Athenians, Aveary of monarchy, deter-
mined to make the experiment of a popular constitu-
tion, and they elected Medon chief Magistrate, with
the title of Archon. This is the commencement of
the Athenian republic, about 1068 b.c.
3. It Avas at this time that the Greeks began to
colonize. The oppression Avhich they suffered at
home forced many of them to abandon their country,
and seek refuge in other lands. —A large body of
HUolians, from Peloponnesus, founded twelve cities
on the opposite coast of Lesser Asia, of Avhich Smyrna
Avas the most considerable. Nileus, disappointed at
Athens, also carried over into Asia a large body of
the disaffected Athenians, along with some lonian
exiles. He built Ephesus, Colophon, Clazomene, and
other toAvns; giving to their neAv settlements the
name of lonia, in compliment to his associates. The
Dorians sent off colonies to Italy and Sicily, found-
ing, in the former, Tarentum and Locri, and in the


latter, Syracuse and Agrigentum. These again at a
later period colonized the islands of Crete, Rhodes,
Cos, and also Halicarnassus and Cnidus in Asia.
The mother-country considered its colonies as entitled
to great favour and assistance, but still as emancipa-
ted children. —These speedily attained to eminence
and splendour, rivalling and surpassing their parent
states : and the example of their prosperity, which
was attributed to the freedom of their governments,
incited the states of Greece, oppressed by a numb 1
of petty despots, to put an end to the regal govern-
ment, and try the experiment of a popular constitu-
tion. Athens and Thebes gave the first examples,
which were soon followed by all the rest.
4. These infant republics demanded new laws ;
and it was necessary that some enlightened citizens
should arise, who had discernment to perceive what
system of legislation was most adapted to the character
of his native state ; who had abilities to compile such
a system, and sufficient authority with his countrymen
to recommend and enforce it. Such men were the
Spartan Lycurgus and the Athenian Solon.
A CHRISTMAS CAROL.
BY CHARLES DICKENS.
STAVE 111. —THE SECOND OF THE THREE SPIRITS.
Awaking in the middle of a prodigiously tough snore, and
sitting up in bed to get his thoughts together, Scrooge had no
occasion to be told that the bell was again upon the stroke of
One. He felt that he was restored to consciousness in the
right nick of time, for the especial purpose of holding a con-
ference with the second messenger despatched to him through
Jacob Marley’s intervention. But finding that he turned
uncomfortably cold when he began to wonder which of his
curtains this new spectre would draw back, he put them every
one aside with his own hands; and lying down again, estab-
lished a sharp look out all round the bed. For he wished to
challenge the Spirit on the moment of its appearance, and did
not wish to be taken by surprise and made nervous.
Gentlemen of the free-and-easy sort, who plume themselves
on being a move or two, and being usually
equal to the time-of-day, express the wide range of their capa-
city for adventure by observing that they are good for any
thing from pitch-and-toss to manslaughter; between which
opposite extremes, no doubt, there lies a tolerably wide and
comprehensive range of subjects. Without venturing for
Scrooge quite as hardily as this, I don’t mind calling on you
to believe that he was ready for a good broad field of strange
appearances, and that nothing between a baby and a rhino-
ceros would have astonished him very much.
Now, being prepared for almost anything, he was not by
any means prepared for nothing; and, consequently, when the
bell struck One, and no shape appeared, he was taken with a
violent fit of trembling. Five minutes, ten minutes, a quarter
of an hour Went by, yet nothing came. All this time, he lay
upon his bed, the very core and centre of a blaze of ruddy
light, which streamed upon it when the clock proclaimed the
hour ; and which being only light, was more alarming than a
dozen ghosts, as he was powerless to make out what it meant,
or would be at; and was sometimes apprehensive that he
might be at that very moment an interesting case of spon-
taneous combustion, without having the consolation of know-
ing it. At last, however, he began to think—as you or I
would have thought at first; for it is always the person not in
the predicament who knows what ought to have been done in
it, and would unquestionably have done it too—at last, I say,
he began to think that the source and secret of this ghostly
light might be in the adjoining room : from whence, on further
tracing it, it seemed to shine. This idea taking full possession
of his mind, he got up softly and shuffled in his slippers to
the door.
The moment Scrooge’s hand was on the lock, a strange
voice called him by his name, and bade him enter. He
obeyed.
It was his own roomy- There was no doubt about that. But
it had undergone a surprising transformation. r lhe walls and
ceiling were so hung with living green, that it looked a per-
feet grove, from every part of which, blight gleaming berries
glistened. The crisp leaves of holly, mistletoe, and ivy re-
flected back the light, as if so many little mirrors had been
scattered there ; and such a mighty blaze went roaring up the
chimney, as that dull petrifaction of a hearth had
in Scrooge's time, or Marley’s, or for many and many a winter
season gone. Heaped up upon the floor, to form a kind of
throne, were turkeys, geese, game, poultry, brawn, great joints
of meat, sucking-pigs, long wreaths of sausages, mince-pies,
plum-puddings, barrels of oysters, red-hot chesnuts, cherry-
cheeked apples, juicy ofanges, luscious pears, immense twelfth-
cakes, and seething bowls of punch, that made the chamber
dim with their delicious steam. In easy state upon this couch,
there sat a jolly Giant, glorious to see ; who bore a glowing
torch, in shape not unlike Plenty’s horn, and held it up, high
up, to shed its light on Scrooge, as he came peeping round
the door.
“ Come in !” exclaimed the Ghost. “ Come in ! and know
me better, man 1”
Scrooge entered timidly, and hung his head before this
Spirit. He was not the dogged Scrooge he had been; and
though its eyes were clear and kind, he did not like to meet
them.
“ I am the Ghost of Christmas Present,” said the Spirit.
“ Look upon me !”
Scrooge reverently did so. It was clothed in one simple
deep green robe, or mantle, bordered with white fur. This
garment hung so loosely on the figure, that its capacious
breast w r as bare, as if disdaining to be warded or concealed by
any artifice. Its feet, observable beneath the ample folds of
the garment, were also bare; and on its head it wore no other
covering than a holly wreath, set here and there with shining
icicles. Its dark brown curls were long and free : free as its
genial face, its sparkling eye, its open hand, its cheery voice,
its unconstrained demeanour, and its joyful air. Girded
round its middle was an antique scabbard ; but no sword was
in it, and the ancient sheath was eaten up with rust.
“You have never seen the like of me before!” exclaimed
the Spirit.
“ Never,” Scrooge made answer to it.
“ Have never walked forth with the younger members of
my family; meaning (for lam very young) my elder brothers
born in these later years ?” pursued the Phantom.
“ I don’t think I have,” said Scrooge. “I am afraid I
have not. Have you had many brothers, Spirit?”
“ More than eighteen hundred,” said the Ghost.
“ A tremendous family to provide for,” muttered Scrooge.
“ The Ghost of Christmas Present rose.
“Spirit,” said Scrooge, submissively, “ conduct me where
you will. I went forth last night on compulsion, and I learnt
a lesson which is working now. To night, if you have aught
to teach me, let me profit by it.”
“ Touch my robe !”
Scrooge did as he was told, and held it fast.
Holly, mistletoe, red berries, ivy, turkeys, geese, game,
poultry, brawn, meat, pigs, sausages, oysters, pies, puddings,
fruit, and punch, all vanished instantly. So did the room,
the fire, the ruddy glow, the hour of night, and they stood in
the city streets on Christmas morning, where (for the weather
was severe) the people made a rough, but brisk and not un-
pleasant kind of music, in scraping the snow from the pave-
ment in front of their dwellings, and from the tops of their
houses : whence it was mad delight to the boys to see it come
plumping down into the road below, and splitting into arti-
ficial little snow-storms.
The house fronts looked black enough, and the windows
blacker, contrasting with the smooth white sheet of snow upon
the roofs, and with the dirtier snow upon the ground ; which
last deposit had been ploughed up in deep furrows by the
heavy wheels of carts and waggons ; furrows that crossed and
re-crossed each other hundreds of times where the great
streets branched off, and made intricate channels, hard to
trace, in the thick yellow mud and icy water. The sky was
gloomy, and the shortest streets were choked up with a dingy
mist, half-thawed half frozen, whose heavier particles de-
scended in a shower of sooty atoms, as if all the chimneys in
Great Britain had, by one consent, caught fire, and were
blazing away to their dear hearts’ content. There was nothing
very cheerful in the climate or the town, and yet was there
an air of cheerfulness abroad that the clearest summer air and
brightest summer sun might have endeavoured to diffuse in
vain.
For the people who were shovelling away on the house-
tops were jovial and full of glee ; calling out to one another


from the parapets, and now and then exchanging a facetious
snowball —better-natured missile far than many a wordy jest
—laughing heartily if it went right, and not less heartily if it
went wrong. The poulterers’ shops were still half open, and
the fruiterers’ were radiant in their glory. There were great,
round, pot-bellied baskets of chesnuts, shaped like the waist-
coats of jolly old gentlemen, lolling at the doors and tumbling
out into the stfeet in their apoplectic opulence. There were
ruddy, brown-faced, broad-girthed Spanish onions, shining in
the fatness of their growth like Spanish Friars; and winking
from their shelves in wanton slyness at the girls as they went
by, and glanced demurely at the hung-up mistletoe. There
were pears and apples, clustered high in blooming pyramids;
there were bunches of grapes, made, in the shopkeepers’
benevolence, to dangle from conspicuous hooks, that people’s
mouths might water gratis as they passed ; there were piles of
filberts, mossy and brown, recalling, in their fragrance, ancient
walks among the woods and pleasant shufflings ancle deep
through withered leavesthere were Norfolk biffins, squab
and swarthy, setting off the yellow of the oranges and lemons,
and, in the great compactness of their juicy persons, urgently
entreating and beseeching to be carried home irt paper bags
and eaten after dinner. The very gold and silver fish, set
forth among these choice fruits in a bowl, though members of
a dull and stagnant blooded race, appeared to know that there
was something going on ; and, to a fish, went gasping round
and round their little world in slow and passionless excite-
ment.
The Grocers’ ! oh the Grocers’ ! nearly closed with perhaps
two shutters down, or one; but through these gaps such
glimpses ! It was not alone that the scales descending on the
counter made a merry sound, or that the twine and roller
parted company so briskly, or that the canisters were rattled
up and down like juggling tricks, or even that the blended
scents of tea and coffee were so grateful to the nose, or even
that the raisins were so plentiful and rare, the almonds so
extremely white, the sticks of cinnamon so long and straight,
the other spices so delicious, the candied fruits so caked and
spotted with molten sugar as to make the coldest lookers-on
feel faint and subsequently bilious. Nor was it that the figs
were moist and pulpy, or that the French plums blushed in
modest tartness from their highly-decorated boxes, or that
everything was good to eat and in its Christmas dress : but
the customers were all so hurried and so eager in the hopeful
promise of the day, that they tumbled up against each other
at the door, clashing their wicker baskets wildly, and left their
purchases upon the counter, and came running back to fetch
them, and committed hundreds of the like mistakes in the
best humour possible ; while the grocer and his people were
so frank and fresh that the polished hearts with which they
fastened their aprons behind might have been their own,
worn outside for general inspection, and for Christmas daws
to peck at if they chose.
But soon the steeples called good people all, to church and
chapel, and away they came, flocking through the streets in
their best clothes, and with their gayest faces. And at the
same time there emerged from scores of bye-streets, lanes,
and nameless turnings, innumerable people, carrying their
dinners to the bakers’ shops. The sight of these poor revellers
appeareu to interest the Spirit very much, for he stood with
Scrooge beside him in a baker’s doorway, and taking off the
covers as their bearers passed, sprinkled incense on their
dinners from his torch. And it was a very uncommon kind
of torch, for once or twice when there were angry words
between some dinner-carriers who had jostled with each other,
he shed a few drops of water on them from it, and their good
humour was restored directly. For they said, it w 7 as a shame
to quarrel on Christmas Day. And so it was ! God love it,
so it was!
In time the bells ceased, and the bakers’ were shut up; and
yet there was a genial shadowing forth of all these dinners
and the progress of their cooking, in the thawed blotch of wet
above each baker’s oven ; where the pavement smoked as if
its stones were cooking too.
“ * s there a peculiar flavour in what you sprinkle from your
torch ?” asked Scrooge.
“ There is. My own.”
“ Would it apply to any kind of dinner on this day ?” asked
Scrooge.
“ To any kindly given. To a poor one most.”
“ Why to a poor one most ?” asked Scrooge.
“ Because it needs it most.”
Spirit,” said Scrooge, after a moment’s thought, “ I
wonder you, of all the beings in the many worlds about us,
should desire to cramp these people’s opportunities of inno-
cent enjoyment.”
“ I !” cried the Spirit.
“ You would deprive them of their means of dining every
seventh day, often the only day on which they can be said to
dine at all,” said Scrooge. “ Wouldn’t you ?”
“ I!” cried the Spirit.
‘‘You seek to close these places on the Seventh Day?”
said Scrooge. “ And it comes to the same thing.”
“ / seek !” exclaimed the Spirit.
“ Forgive me if I am wrong. It has been done in your
name, or at least in that of your family,” said Scrooge.
“ There are some upon this earth of yours,” returned the
Spirit, “ who lav claim to know us, and who do their deeds of
passion, pride, ill-will, hatred, envy, bigotry, and selfishness
in our name ; who are as strange to us and all our kith and
kin, as if they had never lived. Remember that, and charge
their doings on themselves, not us.”
Scrooge promised that he would; and they went on, in-
visible, as they had been before, into the suburbs of the town.
It was a remarkable quality of the Ghost (which Scrooge had
observed at the baker’s) that notwithstanding his gigantic
size, he could accommodate himself to any place with ease ;
and that he stood beneath a low roof quite as gracefully and
like a supernatural creature, as it was possible he could have
done in any lofty hall.
And perhaps it was the pleasure the good Spirit had in
showing off this power of his, or else it was his own kind,
generous, hearty nature, and his sympathy with all poor men,
that led him straight to Scrooge’s clerk’s ; for there he went,
and took Scrooge with him, holding to his robe ; and on the
threshold of the door the Spirit smiled and stopped to bless
Bob Cratchit’s dwelling with the sprinklings of his torch.
Think of that! Bob had but fifteen “ Bob ” a-week himself;
he pocketed on Saturdays but fifteen copies of his Christian
name ; and yet the Ghost of Christmas Present blessed his
four-roomed house!
Then up rose Mrs. Cratchit, Cratchit’s wife, dressed out but
poorly in a twice-turned gown, but brave in ribbons, which
are cheap and made a goodly show for sixpence ; and she laid
the cloth, assisted by Belinda Cratchit, second of her daughters,
also brave in ribbons; while Master Pe\er Cratchit plunged a
fork into the saucepan of potatoes, and getting the corners of
his monstrous shirt-collar (Bob’s private property, conferred
upon his son and heir in honour of the day) into his mouth,
rejoiced to find himself so gallantly attired, and yearned to
show his linen in the fashionable Parks. And now two
smaller Cratchits, boy and girl, came tearing in, screaming
that outside the baker’s they had smelt the goose, and known
it for their own; and basking in luxurious thoughts of sagc-
and-onion, these young Cratchits danced about the table, and
exalted Master Peter Cratchit to the skies, while he (not
proud, although his collars nearly choked him) blew the fire,
until the slow potatoes bubbling up, knocked loudly at the
saucepan-lid to be let out and peeled.
“ What has ever got your precious father then,” said Mrs.
Cratchit. “ And your brother, Tiny Tim ! and Martha warn’t
as late'last Christmas Day by half-an-hour !”
“ Here’s Martha, mother!” said a girl, appearing as she
spoke.
“ Here’s Martha, mother !” cried the two young Cratchits.
“ Hurrah ! There’s such a goose, Martha !”
“ Why, bless your heart alive, my dear, how late you are !”
said Mrs. Cratchit, kissing her a dozen times, and taking off*
her shawl and bonnet for her, with officious zeal.
“ We’d a deal of work to finish up last night,” replied the
girl, “ and had to clear away this morning, mother !”
“ Well! Never mind so long as you are come,” said Mrs.
Cratchit. “ Sit ye down before the fire, my dear, and have a
warm, Lord bless ye !”
“No no ! There’s father coming,” cried the two young
Cratchits, who were everywhere at once. “ Hide Martha,
hide !”
So Martha hid herself, and in came little Bob, the father,
with at least three feet of comforter exclusive of the fringe,
hanging down before him, and his threadbare clothes darned
up and brushed, to look seasonable; and Tiny Tim upon his
shoulder. Alas for Tiny Tim, he bore a little crutch, and had
his limbs supported by an iron frame!
“ Why, where’s our Martha ?” cried Bob Cratchit looking
round.
“ Not coming,” said Mrs. Cratchit.
“ Not coming !” said Bob, with a sudden declension in his
high spirits ; for he had been Tim’s blood-horse all the way


from church, and had come home rampant. “Not coming
upon Christmas Day !” 8
Martha didn’t like to see him disappointed, if it were only
in joke ; so she came out prematurely from behind the closet
door and ran into his arms, while the two voung Cratchits
hustled Tiny Tim, and bore him off into the wash-house, that
he might hear the pudding singing in the copper.
And how did little Tim behave?” asked Mrs. Cratchit,
when she had rallied Bob on his credulity, and Bob had
hugged Ins daughter to his heart’s content.
“ A * Sood as gold,” said Bob, “ and better. Somehow he
gets thoughtful, sitting by himself so much, and thinks the
strangest things you ever heard. He told me. coming home,
that he hoped the people saw him in the church, because he
was a cripple, and it might be pleasant to them to remember
upon Christmas Day, who made lame beggars walk and blind
men see.”
Bob’s voice was tremulous when he told them this, and
trembled more when he said that Tiny Tim was growing
strong and hearty. 8
His active little crutch was heard upon the floor, and back
came Tiny Tim before another word was spoken, escorted by
his brother and sister to his stool beside the fire; and while
Bob, turning up his cuffs—as if, poor fellow, they were
capab.e of being made more shabby—compounded some hot
mixture in a jug with gin and lemons, and stirred it round
and round and put it on the hob to simmer; Master Peter and
the two übiquitous young Cratchits went to fetch the goose,
with which they soon returned in high procession.
Such a bustle ensued that you might have thought a goose
the rarest of all birds; a feathered phenomenon to which a
black swan was a matter of course : and in truth it was some-
thing very like it in that house. Mrs. Cratchit made the
gravy (ready before-hand in a little saucepan) hissing hot •
Master Peter mashed the potatoes with incredible vigour •
Miss Belinda sweetened up the apple-sauce ; Martha dusted
the hot plates ; Boh took Tiny Tim beside him in a tiny
corner at the table ; the two young Cratchits set chairs for
everybody, not forgetting themselves, and mounting guard
upon their posts, crammed spoons into their mouths, lest they
should shriek for goose before their turn came to be helped.
At last the dishes were set on, and grace was said. It was
succeeded by a breathless pause, as Mrs. Cratchit, 'looking
slowly all along the carving-knife, prepared to plunge it in
the breast; but when she did, and when the long expected
gush of stuffing issued forth, one murmur of delight arose all
around the board, and even Tiny Tim, excited by the two
young Cratchits, beat on the table with the handle of his
knife, and feebly cried Hurrah !
There never was such a goose. Bob said he didn’t believe
there ever was such a goose cooked. Its tenderness and
flavour, size and cheapness, were the themes of universal ad-
miration. Eked out by the apple-sauce and mashed potatoes,
it was a sufficient dinner for the whole family; indeed, as Mrs.
Cratchit said with great delight (surveying one small atom of
a bone upon the dish), they hadn’t ate it all at last! Yet
every one had had enough, and the youngest Cratchits in
particular, were steeped in sage-and-onion to the eyebrows !
But now, the plates being changed by Miss Belinda, Mrs.
Cratchit left the room alone—too nervous to bear witnesses—
to take the pudding up, and bring it in.
Suppose it should not be done enough ! Suppose it should
break in turning out! Suppose somebody should have got
over the wall of the back-yard, and stolen it, while they were
merry with the goose : a supposition at which the two young
Cratchits became livid ! All sorts of horrors were supposed.
Hallo ! A great deal of steam ! The pudding was out of
the copper. A smell like a washing-day! That was the
doth. A smell like an eating-house, and a pastry-cook’s next
door to each ether, with a laundress’s next door to that!
That was the pudding. In half a minute Mrs. Cratchit
entered : flushed, but smiling proudly : with the pudding, like
a speckled cannon-ball, so hard and firm, blazing in half-of-
a-quartern of ignited brandy, and bedight with Christmas
he lly stuck into the top.
Oh, a wonderful pudding! Bob Cratchit said, and calmly
too, that he regarded it as the greatest success achieved by
Mrs. Cratchit since their marriage Mrs Cratchit said : that
now the weight was off her mind, she would confess she had
had her doubts about the quantity of flour. Everybody had
something to say about it, but nobody said or thought it was
at all a small pudding for a large family. It would have been
flat heresy to do so. Any Cratchit would have blushed to
hint at such a thing.
At last the dinner was all done, the cloth was cleared the
hearth swept, and the fire made up. The compound'in the
jug being tasted and considered perfect, apples and oranges
were put upon the table, and a shovel-full of chesnuts on the
fire. Then all the Cratchit family drew round the hearth in
what Bob Cratchit called a circle, meaning half a one ; and at
Bob Cratchit’s elbow stood the family display of glass ; two
tumblers, and a custard-cup without a handle.
These held the hot stuff from the jug, however, as well as
golden golbets would have done ; and Bob served it out with
beaming looks, while the chesnuts on the fire sputtered and
crackled noisily. Then Bob proposed :
“ A merry Christmas to us all, my dears. -God bless us!”
Which all the family re-echoed.
“ God bless us every one !” said Tiny Tim, the last of all.
He sat very close to his father’s side upon his little stool.
Bob held his withered little hand in his, as if he loved the
child, and wished to keep him by his side, and dreaded that
he might be taken from him.
“ Spirit,” said Scrooge, with an interest he had never felt
before, “ tell me if Tiny Tim will live.”
“I see a vacant seat,” replied the Ghost, “in the poor
chimney corner, and a crutch without an owner, carefully pre-
served. If these shadows remain unaltered by the Future
the child will die.”
“ No, no,” said Scrooge, “Oh no, kind Spirit! say he will
be spared.”
“If these shadows remain unaltered by the Future, none
other of my race,” returned the Ghost, “ will find him here.
What then ? If he be like to die, he had better do it, and
decrease the surplus population.”
Scrooge hung his head to hear his own words quoted by the
Spirit and was overcome with penitence and grief.
“ Man,” said the Ghost, “if man you be in heart, not
adamant, forbear that wicked cant until you have discovered
What the surplus is, and Where it is. Will you decide what
men shall live, what men shall die ? It may be, that in the
sight of Fleaven, you are more worthless and less fit to live
than millions like this poor man’s child. Oh God !to hear the
Insect on the leaf pronouncing on the too much life among his
hungry brothers in the dust !”
Scrooge bent before the Ghost’s rebuke, and trembling cast
his eyes upon the ground. But he raised them speedily, on
hearing his own name.
“ Mr. Scrooge !” said Bob ; “ I’ll give you Mr. Scrooge, the
Founder of the Feast !”
“ The Founder of the Feast indeed !” cried Mrs Cratchit,
reddening. “ I wish I had him here. I’d give him a piece of
my mind to feast upon, and I hope he’d have a good appetite
for it.”
“ My dear,” said Bob, “ the children ; Christmas Day.”
“It should be Christmas Day, I am sure,” said she, “on
which one drinks the health of such an odious, stingy, hard,
unfeeling man as Mr. Scrooge. You know he is, Robert!—
Nobody knows it better than you do, poor fellow ?”
“ My dear,” was Bob’s mild answer, “ Christmas Day.”
“ I’ll drink his health for your sake and the Day’s,” said
Mrs. Cratchit, “not for his. Long life to him! A merry
Christmas and a happy new year ! —he’ll be very merry and
very happy, I have no doubt !”
The children drank the toast after her. It was the first of
their proceedings which had no heartiness in it. Tiny Tim
drank it last of all, but he didn’t care twopence for it. Scrooge
was the Ogre of the family. The mention of his name cast a
dark shadow on the party, which was not dispelled for full five
minutes.
After it had passed away, they were ten times merrier than
before, from the mere relief of Scrooge the Baleful being done
with. Bob Cratchit told them how he had a situation in his
eye for Master Peter, which would bring in, if obtained, full
five-and-six-pence weekly. The two young Cratchits laughed
tremendously at the idea of Peter’s being a man of business;
and Peter himself looked thoughtfully at the fire from between
his collars, as if he were deliberating what particular invest-
ments he should favour when he came into the receipt of that
bewildering income. Martha, who was a poor apprentice at a
milliner’s, then told them what kind of work she had to do,
and how many hours she worked at a stretch, and how she
meant to lie a-bed to-morrow morning for a good long rest;
to-morrow being a holiday she passed at home. Also how
she had seen a countess and a lord some days before, and how
the lord “ was much about as tall as Peter at which Peter
pulled up his collar so high that you couldn’t have seen his
head if you had been there. All this time the chesnuts and the


jug went round and round ; and bye and bye they had a song,
about a lost child travelling in the snow, from Tiny Tim ; who
had a plaintive little voice, and sang it very well indeed.
There was nothing of high mark in this. They were not a
handsome family ; they were not well dressed; their shoes were
far from being waterproof; their clothes were scanty ; and
Peter might have known, and very likely did, the inside of a
pawnbroker’s. But they were happy, grateful, pleased with
one another, and contented with the time; and when they faded
and looked happier yet in bright sprinklings of the Spirit’s
torch at parting, Scrooge had his eye upon them, and especially
on Tiny Tim, until the last.
By this time it was getting dark, and snowing pretty heavily ;
and as Scrooge and the Spirit went along the streets, the
brightness of the roaring fires in kitchens, parlours, and all
sorts of rooms, was wonderful. Here, the flickering of the
blaze showed preparations for a cosy dinner, with hot plates
baking through and through before the fire, and deep red
curtains, ready to be drawn, to shut out cold and darkness.
There, all the children of the house were running out into the
snow to meet their married sisters, brothers, cousins, uncles,
aunts, and be the first to greet them. Here, again, were
shadows on the window-blind of guests assembling ; and there
a group of handsome girls, all hooded and fur-booted, and all
chattering at once, tripped lightly off to some near neighbour’s
house; where, wo upon the single man who saw them enter —
artful witches: well they knew it—in a glow!
But if you had judged from the numbers of people on their
way to friendly gatherings, you might have thought that no
one was at home to give them welcome when they got there,
instead of every house expecting company, and piling up its
fires half-chimney high. Blessings on it, how the Ghost
exulted ! How it bared its breadth of breast, and opened its
capacious palm, and floated on, outpouring, with a generous
hand, its bright and harmless mirth on everything within its
reach ! The very lamplighter, who ran on before dotting the
dusky streets with specks of light, and who was dressed to
spend the evening somewhere, laughed out loudly as the Spirit
passed: though little kenned the lamp-lighter that he had any
company but Christmas!
And now, without a word of warning from the Ghost, they
stood upon a bleak and desert moor, where monstrous masses
of rude stone were cast about, as though it were the burial-
place of giants ; and water spread itself wheresoever it listed
“—or would have done so, but for the frost that held it prisoner ;
and nothing grew but moss and furze, and coarse, rank grass.
Down in the west the setting sun had left a streak of fiery red,
which glared upon the desolation for an instant, like a sullen
eye, and frowning lower, lower, lower yet, was lost in the thick
gloom of darkest night.
“ What place is this ?” asked -Scrooge.
“ A place where Miners live, who labour in the bowels of
t.ie earth,” returned the Spirit. “ But they know me. See!”
A light shone from the window of a hut, and swiftly they
advanced towards it. Passing through the wall of mud and
stone, they found a cheerful company assembled round a glow-
ing fire. An old, old man and woman, with their children and
their children’s children, and another generation beyond that,
all decked out gaily in their holiday attire. The old man, in
a voice that seldom rose above the howling of the wind upon
the barren waste, was singing them a Christmas song ; it had
been a very old song when he was a boy ; and from time to
time they all joined in the chorus. So surely as they raised
their voices, the old man got quite blithe and loud ; .and so
surely as they stopped, his vigour sank again.
The Spirit did not tarry here, but bade Scrooge hold his
robe, and passing on above the moor, sped whither ? Not to
Sea io sea. To Scrooge’s horror, looking back, he saw the
last of the land, a frightful range of rocks, behind them ; and
his ears were deafened by the thundering of water, as it rolled,
and roared, and raged among the dreadful caverns it had worn,
and fiercely tried to undermine the earth.
Built upon a dismal reef of sunken rocks, some league or so
from shore, on which the waters chafed and dashed, the wild
year through, there stood a solitary lighthouse. Great heaps
of sea-weed clung to its base, and storm-birds—born of the
wind one might suppose, as sea-weed of the water—rose and
ieJl about it, like the waves they skimmed.
But even here, two men who watched the light had made a
fire, that through the loophole in the thick stone wall shed out
a ray of brightness on the awful sea. Joining their horny
hands over the rough table at which they sat, they wished each
o her Merry Christmas in their can of grog ; and one of them :
the elder, too, with his face all damaged and scarred with hard
weather, as the figure-head of an old ship might be : struck up
a sturdy song that was like a Gale in itself.
Again the Ghost sped on, above the black and heaving sea
—on, on—until, being far away, as he told Scrooge, from any
shore, they lighted on a ship. They stood beside the helms-
man at the wheel, the look-out in the bow, the officers who
had the watch ; dark, ghostly figures in their several stations;
but every man among them hummed a Christmas tune, or had
a Christmas thought, or spoke belew his breath to his com-
panion of some bygone Christmas Day, with homeward hopes
belonging to it. And every man on board, waking or sleeping,
good or bad, had had a kinder word for another on that day
than on any day in the year ; and had shared to some extent
in its festivities; and had remembered those he cared for at
a distance, and had known that they delighted to remember him.
It was a great surprise to Scrooge, while listening to the
moaning of the wind, and thinking what a solemn thing it was
to move on through the lonely darkness over an unknown
abyss, whose depths were secrets as profound as Death : it was
a great surprise to Scrooge, while thus engaged, to hear a
hearty laugh. It was a much greater surprise to Scrooge to
recognise it as his own nephew’s, and to find himself in a bright,
dry, gleaming roofn, with the Spirit standing smiling by his
side, and looking at that same nephew with approving affa-
bility 1
“ Ha, ha !” laughed Scrooge’s nephew. “ Ha, ha, ha !”
If you should happen, by any unlikely chance, to know a
man more blest in a laugh than Scrooge's nephew, all I can
say is, I should like to know him too. Introduce him to me,
and I’ll cultivate his acquaintance.
It is a fair, even-handed, noble adjustment of things, that
while there is infection in disease and sorrow, there is nothing
in the world so irresistibly contagious as laughter and good-
humour. When Scrooge’s nephew laughed in this way :
holding his sides, rolling his head, and twisting his face into
the most extravagant contortions : Scrooge’s niece, by mar-
riage, laughed as heartily as he. And their assembled friends
being not a bit behindhand, roared out, lustily.
“ Ha, ha ! Ha, ha, ha, ha !”
“He said that Christmas was a humbug, as I live!” cried
Scrooge’s nephew. “He believed it too !”
“ More shame for him, Fred!” said Scrooge’s niece, indig
nantly. Bless those women ; they never do anything by halves
They are always in earnest.
She was very pretty : exceedingly pretty. With a dimpled,
surprised-looking, capital face ; a ripe little mouth, that
seemed made to be kissed—as no doubt it was ; all kinds of
good little dots about her chin, that melted into one another
when she laughed ; and the sunniest pair of eyes you ever saw
in any little creature’s head. Altogether she was what you
would have called provoking, you know ; but satisfactory, too.
Oh, perfectly satisfactory !
“ He’s a comical old fellow,” said Scrooge’s nephew, “that’s
the truth; and not so pleasant as he might be. However, his
offences carry their own punishment, and I have nothing to
say against him.”
“I’m sure he is very rich, Fred,” hinted Scrooge’s niece.
“ At least you always tell vie so.”
“ What of that, my dear !” said Scrooge’s nephew. “ His
wealth is of no use to him. He dbn’t do any good with it.
He don’t make himself comfortable with it. He has n’t the
satisfaction of thinking—lia, ha, ha ! —that he is ever going to
benefit Us with it.” S
“ I have no patience with him,” observed Scrooge’s niece'
Scrooge’s niece’s sisters, and all the other ladies, expressed
the same opinion.
“Oh, I have !” said Scrooge’s nephew. “ I am sorry for
him ; I could n’t be angry with him if I tried. Who suffers by
his ill whims? Himself, always, Here, he takes it into his
head to dislike us, and he won’t come and dine with us. What’s
the consequence ? He dont lose much of a dinner.”
“ Indeed, I think he loses a very good dinner,” interrupted
Scrooge’s niece. Everybody else said the same, and they must
be allowed to have been competent judges, because they just
had dinner ; and, with the dessert upon the table, were clus-
tered round the fire, by lamplight.
“ Well! 1 am very glad to hear it,” said Scrooge’s nephew,
“ because I have n’t any great faith in these young house-
keepers. What do yeu say, Topper ?”
Topper had clearly got his eye upon one of Scrooge’s niece’s
sisters, for he answered that a bachelor was a wretched.outcast,
who had no right to express an opinion on the subject.
Whereat Scrooge’s niece’s sister—the plump one with the lace
tucker: not the one with the roses—blushed.


“ Do go on, Fred,” said Scrooge’s niece, clapping her hands.
“He never finishes what he begins to say! He is such a
ridiculous fellow !”
Scrooge’s nephew revelled in another laugh, and as it was
impossible to keep the infection off; though the plump sister
tried hard to do it with aromatic vinegar; hie example was
unanimously followed.
“ I was only going to say,” said Scrooge’s nephew, “ that
the consequence of his taking a dislike to us, and not making
merry with us, is, as I think, that he loses some pleasant
moments, which could do him no harm. I am sure he loses
pleasanter companions than he can find in his own thoughts,
either in his mouldy old office, or his dusty chambers. I
mean to give him the same chance every year, whether he
likes it or not, for I pity him. He may rail at Christmas till
he dies, but he can’t help thinking better of it—l defy him—
it he finds me going there, in good temper, year after year,
and saying Uncle Scrooge, how are you? If it only puts him
in the vein to leave his poor clerk fifty pounds, that's some-
thing ; and I think I shook him, yesterday.”
It was their turn to laugh now, at the notion of his shaking
Scrooge. But being thoroughly good-natured, and not much
caring what they laughed at, so that they laughed at any rate,
h. encouraged them in their merriment, and passed the bottle,
joyously.
After tea, they had some music. For they were a musical
family, and knew what they were about, when they sung a
Glee or Catch, I can assure you : especially Topper, who could
growl away in the bass like a good one, and never swell the
large veins in his forehead, or get red in the face over it.
Scrooge’s niece played well upon the harp ; and played among
other tunes a simple little air (a mere nothing : you might
learn to whistle it in two minutes,) which had been familiar*to
the child who fetched Scrooge from the boarding-school, as he
had been reminded by the Ghost of Christmas Past. When
this strain of music sounded, all the things that Ghost had
shown him, came upon his mind ; he softened more and more ;
and thought that if he could have listened to it often, years
ago, he might have cultivated the kindnesses of life for his own
happiness with his own hands, without resorting to the sexton’s
spade that buried Jacob Marley.
But they did n’t devote the whole evening to music. After
a while they played at forfeits ; for it is good to be children
sometimes, and never better than at Christmas, when its mighty
Founder was a child himself. Stop ! There was first a game
at blindman’s buff. Of course there was. And I no more
believe Topper was really blind than I believe he had eyes in
his boots. My opinion is, that it was a done thing between
him and Scrooge’s nephew ; and that the Ghost of Christmas
Present knew it. The way he went after that plump sister in
the lace tucker, was an outrage on the credulity of human
nature. Knocking down the fire-irons, tumbling over the
chairs, bumping up against the piano, smothering himself
among the curtains, wherever she went, there went he. . He
always knew where the plump sister was. Fie would n’t catch
anybody else. If you had fallen up against him, as some of
thgrn did, and stood there ; he would not have made a feint of
endeavouring to seize you, which would have been an affront
to your understanding ; and would instantly have sidled off in
the direction of the plump sister. She often cried out that it
was n’t fair; and it really was not. But when at last, he caught
her ; when, in spite of all her silken rustlings, and her rapid
fiutterings past him, he got her into a corner whence there was
no escape; then his conduct was most execrable. For his
pretending not to know her ; his pretending that it was neces-
sary to touch her head-dress, and further to assure himself of
her identity, by pressing a certain ring upon her finger, and a
certain chain about her neck ; was vile, monstrous! No
doubt She told him her opinion of it, when, another blind man
being in office, they were so very confidential together, behind
the curtains.
Scrooge’s niece was not one of the blind-man’s buff party,
but was made comfortable with a large chair and a footstool, in
a snug corner, where the Ghost and Scrooge were close behind
her. But she joined in the forfeits, and loved her love to ad-
miration with ail the letters of the alphabet. Likewise at the
game of Flow, When, and Where, she was very great, and to
the secret joy of Scrooge’s nephew, beat her sisters hollow :
though they were sharp girls too, as Topper could have told
you. There might have been twenty people there, young and
old, but they all played, and so did Scrooge; for, wholly for-
getting in the interest he had in what was going on, that his
voice made no sound in their ears, he sometimes came out with
his guess quite loud, and very often guessed right, too; for the
sharpest needle, best Whitechapel, warranted not to cut in the
eye, was not sharper than Scrooge : blunt as he took it in his
head to be.
The Ghost was greatly pleased to find him in this mood, and
looked upon him with such favour that he begged like a boy to
be allowed to stay until the guests departed. But this the
spirit said could not be done.
“ Here’s a new game,” said Scrooge. “ One half hour
Spirit, only one!”
It was a Game called Yes and No, where Scrooge’s nephew
had to think of something, and the rest must find out what;
he only answered to their questions yes or no as the case was!
The brisk fire of questioning to which he was exposed, elicited
from him that he was thinking of an animal, a live animal,
rather a disagreeable animal, a savage animal, an animal that
growled and grunted sometimes, and talked sometimes, and
lived in London, and walked about the streets, and wasn’t
made a show of, and wasn’t led by anybody, and didn’t live in
a menagerie, and was never killed in a market, and was not a
horse, or an ass, or a cow, or a bull, or a tiger, or a dog, or a
pig, or a cat, or a bear. At every fresh question that was put
to him, this nephew burst into a fresh roar of laughter ; and
was so inexpressibly tickled, that he was obliged to get up off
the sofa and stamps At last the plump sister, falling into a
similar state, cried out :
“ I have found it out! 1 know what it is, Fred ! I know
what it is !”
“ What is it ?” cried Fred.
“ It’s your Uncle Scro-o-o-o-oge !”
Which it certainly was. Admiration was the universal
sentiment, though some objected that the reply to “Is it a
hear ?” ought to have been “ Yes;” inasmuch as an answer
in the negative was sufficient to have diverted their thoughts
from Mr. Scrooge, supposing they had ever had any tendency
that way.
“ He has given us plenty of merriment, I am sure,” said
Fred, “ and it would be ungrateful not to drink his health.
Here is a glass of mulled wine ready to our hand at the mo-
ment ; and I say ‘ Uncle Scrooge !’ ”
“Well! Uncle Scrooge !” they cried.
“A Merry Christmas 3nd a happy New Year to the old
man, whatever he is !” said Scrooge’s nephew. “He wouldn’t
take it from me, but may he have it, nevertheless. Uncle
Scrooge !”
Uncle Scrooge had imperceptibly become so gay and light
of heart, that he would have pledged the unconscious company
in return, and thanked them in an inaudible speech, if the
Ghost had given him time. But the whole scene passed off
in the breath of the last word spoken by his nephew; and he
and the Spirit were again upon their travels.
Much they saw, and far they went, and many homes they
visited, but always with a happy end. The Spirit stood beside
sick beds, and they were cheerful; on foreign lands, and they
were close at home ; by struggling men, and they were patient
in their greater hope; by poverty, and it was rich. In alms-
house, hospital, and jail, in misery’s every refuge, where vain
man in his little brief authority had not made fast the door,
and barred the Spirit out, he left his blessing, and taught
Scrooge his precepts.
It was a long night, if it were only a night; but Scrooge had
his doubts of this, because the Christmas Holidays appeared
to be condensed into the space of time they passed together.
It was strange, too, that while Scrooge remained unaltered in
his outward form, the Ghost grew older, clearly older. Scrooge
had observed this change, but never spoke of it, until they left
a children’s Twelfth Night party, when, looking at the Spirit
as they stood together in an open place, he noticed that its hair
was gray.
“ Are spirits’ lives so short?’' asked Scrooge.
“ My life upon this globe, is very brief,” replied the Ghost.
“ It ends to-night.”
“ To-night !” cried Scrooge.
“ To-night at midnight. Hark ! The time is drawing near.”
The chimes were ringing the three quarters past eleven at
that moment.
“ Forgive me if I am not justified in what I ask,” said
Scrooge, looking intently on the Spirit’s rohe, “but I see some-
thing strange, and not belonging to yourself, protruding from
your skirts. Is it a foot or a claw !”
“It might be a claw, for the flesh there is upon it,” was the
Spirit’s sorrowful reply. “ Look here.”
From the foldings of its robe, it brought two children ;
wretched, abject, frightful, hideous, miserable. They knelt
down at its feet, and clung upon the outside of its garment.


“ Oh, Man ! look here. Look, look, down here !” exclaimed
the Ghost.
They were a boy and girl. Yellow, meagre, ragged, scow-
ling, wolfish ; but prostrate, too, in their humility. Where
graceful youth should have filled their features out, and touched
them with its freshest tints, a stale and shrivelled hand, like
that of age, had pinched, and twisted them, and pulled them
into shreds. Where angels might have sat enthroned, devils
lurked, and glared out menacing. No change, no degradation,
no perversion of humanity, in any grade, through all the
mysteries of wonderful creation, has monsters half so horrible
and dread.
Scrooge started back, appalled. Having them shown to
him in this way, he tried to say they were fine children, but
the words choked themselves, rather than parties to a lie of
such enormous magnitude.
“ Spirit! are they yours ?” Scrooge could say no more.
“ They are Man’s,” said the Spirit, looking down upon
them. “ And they cling to me, appealing from their fathers.
This boy is Ignorance. This girl is Want. Beware them
both, and all of their degree, but most of all beware this boy,
for on his brow I see that written which is Doom, unless the
writings be erased. Deny it!” cried the Spirit, stretching out
its hand towards the city. “ Slander those who tell it ye !
Admit it for your factious purposes, and make it worse ! And
bide the end!”
“ Have they no refuge or resource?” cried Scrooge.
“Are there no prisons?” said the Spirit, turning on him
for the last time with his own words. “ Are there no work-
houses ?”
The bell struck twelve.
Scrooge looked about him for the Ghost and saw it not As
the last stroke ceased to vibrate, he remembered the prediction
of old Jacob Marley, and lifting up his eyes, beheld a solemn
Phantom, draped and hooded, coming, like a mist along the
ground, towards him.
INDEX VERBORUM VITANDORUM.
Or, a list of Words, Phrases, &c., which are to be avoided by
all correct Readers, Spellers, Speakers, and Writers.
No. 11.
APHiERESIS.
Aplueresis, from the beginning, takes
What, thus remove’d, bad sense or spelling makes.
Error. Correction.
’ant, have n’t.
’aught, (i. e. 0) naught ( qu. nothing),
’bate, abate.
’ess, Sir, yes, Sir.
’hooping-cough, whooping-cough.
’prentice, apprentice.
’sparrow-grass, asparagus.
’spital, hospital.
’tatoes, potatoes.
phthisis.
44, or’44,* 1814.
* This, in a letter, might at some future period, raise con-
jecture as to whether it was written in 1644 or 1744, or 1944.
Varieties.
Anecdotes. —Anecdotes are among the luxuries of litera-
ture. They stimulate the appetite for reading, and almost
create where it is deficient.
Difficulties Useful. —lf any man possessed every quali-
fication for success in life, it is probable lie would remain per-
fectly stationary. The consciousness of his powers would tempt
lnm to omit opportunity after opportunity to the end of his days
Those who do succeed, ordinarily owe their success to some
disadvantage under which they labour; and it is the struggle
against a difficulty that brings facilities into play.
Maxims to Live by. —The only certain test by which we
can ascertain the sincerity, of our regard for friends, is the
feeling with which we receive the news of their happiness and
aggrandizement; the more especially when fortune has raised
them a degree or two above our own level.
Tiie Beggar.—A Player met a man in the street, who ap-
peared extremely distressed, and asked charity; he gave him
something, observing, “ Either that man must be in actual
distress or he is an excellent actor.”
Bachelors, get Married. —If you are desirous of wealth,
get married, for a good wife promotes habits of industry and
economy, and prevents a great many unnecessary expenses
which cannot be avoided in a single life.—lf you are looking
for stations and honour, get married, for a good wife will seek
to advance her husband in the prosecution of all honourable
purposes, and lend him that aid and encouragement which he
can derive from no other source.—lf you would become a good
citizen, get married ; for he is alone worthy of the title, who is
connected to the great family of man by the ties of husband
and father.—lf you are fortunate, get married ; for a good wife
will increase your prosperity and render you twice blessed iu
the enjoyment of your riches. —If you are unfortunate, get
married ; the cares of the world are lessened by having a wife
who takes a pleasure in sharing them with you.—lf you are in
business, get married ; for the married man who has his mind
fixed on his business and his family is likely of success.—lf
you are young, get married. Dr. Franklin advocated early
marriages, because a man who marries young can have the
satisfaction of raising and educating his children before he
dies.—lf you wish for longevity, get married ; for the mortality
of bachelors, from the ages of 30 to 45, is 27 percent. Of
married men of the same ages, 18 per cent. For 41 bachelors
who attain the age of 40, there are 78 married men ; the dif-
ference is more striking as age advances. At the ageof 60 there
are but 22 bachelors alive for 48 married men ; and at 70
years, 11 bachelors for 27 married men; and at 80 years, for
3 bachelors there are 9 married men.—Get married.—Let your
plans and purposes for future life be what they may, the busi-
ness of getting married is one that should be attended to first,
as it neither interferes with your plans, nor prevents their
execution.— Get married—Live soberly, be industrious, engage
in nothing that will deteriorate from your character as an
honest man, a pure patriot, and a kind husband : with all your
gettings, get married.
Aphorisms and Reflections. Tea and Yarmouth
bloaters, chops and stout, Welsh rabbits and whisky—suchisa
day ! —How beautiful is Nature ! From the sun in his noon-
tide glory, to the humble glimmer of the glow-worm ! What
painter could faithfully depict the rainbow colouring of a con-
valescent black eye ! —As comfort to the afflicted spirit, so is
the hatbrush to the ruffled gossamer—Perseverance and
industry will ultimately obtain life’s leg of mutton, be the pole
on which it is elevated never so greasy; and the earefully-
soaped tail of the pig of prosperity elude the grasp of well-
directed assiduity.—Seldom do we meet with a more striking
instance of the pursuit of knowledge under difficulties than
when we see a blind man industriously endeavouring to
decipher in the dark the unintelligible hieroglyphics of bygone
ages.— Punch.
Thomson’s long-winded “seasons” have been superseded
by an American poet, who dismisses the four quarters of the
year in as many lines—thus—
Spring—Showery, flowery, bowery.
Summer—Hoppy, croppy, poppy.
Autumn—Wheezy, sneezy, freezy.
Winter —Slippy, drippy, nippy.
The Greatest Navigators.— Why are washerwomen the
greatest navigators of the globe ?—Because they are con-
tinually crossing the line , and running from pole to pole.
Punch.
Man’s Love. —lt is a poor and vulgar philosophy which
teaches that man cannot love as truly and permanently as
woman. There may be fewer instances, but there are many to
prove the fact. There are fewer, because the temptations to
forget the first strong, overpowering passion of our being are
more frequent with men than with women. Other passions
naturally try to unseat from the heart’s throne any dominant
power which tramples them beneath its feet, especially when
its sway has been unhappy. The busy scenes which men pass
through give to those other passions—ambition, avarice, tl.e
love of fame, and many others—every opportunity of dethron-
ing love, if love be in himself not strong and firm. The daily
passing of manifold occurrences—business, pleasure, danger,
strife, and all the many memories attached to them—strive to
efface, by the crossing of new lines, the impressions of early
years ; but the diamond can neither be scratched nor sullied ;
and if the heart be of a baser stone, it may, and will, lose the*
image that it bore ; but if it be, like that jewel, firm and clear
and pure, it will retain unchanged that which has been once
engraved upon it.— James.
In a single century, four thousand millions of human beings
appear on the face of the earth, act their busy parts, and sink
into its peaceful bosom.


The Moralist.
JOY AND GRIEF.
Let not thy mirth be so extravagant as to intoxicate thy mind,
nor thy sorrow so heavy as to depress thy heart. This world
affordeth no good so transporting, nor inflicteth any evil so
severe, as should raise thee far above, or sink thee much
beneath, the balance of moderation.
Lo ! yonder standeth the house of Joy. It is painted on the
outside and looketh gay ; thou mayest know it from the con-
tinual noise of mirth and exultation that issueth from it.
The mistress standeth at the door, and calleth aloud to all
that pass by ; she singeth and shouteth, and laugheth without
ceasing.
She inviteth them to go in and taste the pleasures of life,
which she telleth them are no where to be found but beneath
her roof.
But enter not thou into her gate ; neither associate thyself
with those who frequent her house.
They call themselves the sons of Joy; they laugh and seem
delighted: but madness and folly are in all their doings.
They are linked with mischief hand in hand, and their steps
lead down to evil. Dangers beset them round about, and the
pit of destruction yawneth beneath their feet.
Look now on the other side, and behold, in that vale over-
shadowed with trees, and hid from the sight of men, the habi-
tation of Sorrow.
Her bosom heaveth with sighs, her mouth is filled with
lamentation ! she delighteth to dwell on the subject of human
misery.
She looketh on the common accidents of life and weepeth;
the weakness and wickedness of man is the theme of her lips.
All nature to her teemeth with evil, every object she seetli is
tinged with the gloom of her own mind, and the voice of com-
plaint saddeneth her dwelling day and night.
Come not near her cell; her breath is contagious; she
will blast the fruits, and wither the flowers, that adorn and
sweeten the garden of life.
In avoiding the house of Joy, let not thy feet betray thee to
the borders of this dismal mansion ; but pursue the middle
path, which shall lead thee by a gentle ascent to the bower of
Tranquillity.
With her dwelleth Peace, with her dwelleth Safety and
Contentment. She is cheerful, but not gay ; she is serious,
but not grave; she vieweth the joys and sorrows of life with an
equal and steady eye.
From hence, as from an eminence, shalt thou behold the
folly and the misery of those, who, led by the gaiety of their
hearts, take up their abode with the companions of Jollity and
riotous Mirth ; or infected with Gloominess and Melancholy,
spend all their days in complaining of the woes and calamities
of human life.
Thou shalt view them both with pity, and the error of their
ways shall keep thy feet from straying.
MORAL MAXIMS.
ALPHABETICALLY ARRANGED.
No. 10.
Almost, and, very nigh, save many a lie.
A mad bull is not to be tied up with a pack-thread.
A man, forewarned, is fore-armed.
A man had better be poisoned in his blood, than in his
principles.
A man is a lion in his own cause.
A man is a man though he have but a hose upon his head.
A man knows his companion in a long journey and a small
inn.
A man loses his time, that comes early, to a bad bargain.
A man may buy gold too dear.
A man may love his house well, and yet not ride on the
ridge.
A man’s discontent is his worst evil.
A man-servant and a friend should be neither poor nor rich.
To Letter Writers. —lf a friend be permanently distant,
do not communicate to him any vexation of yours which he is
unable to relieve. You will spare him all the suffering that
his sympathy would have excited.— Bentham.
If called upon to give an unfavourable opiniop as to a saying
of any kind, or a work of which you disapprove, do not be for-
ward to communicate your disapprobation, merely because
your self-love is flattered by the appeal made to your judg-
ment. — Ibid,
Select Poetry.
THE WELCOME.
The walls may be hung with bright silks frorni the east,
The tables may groan with the weight of the feast,
The viands be rich, and the lustres burn bright,
Surrounded by mirrors reflecting their light;
The host may be noble—around him may stand
The proudest and fairest that dwell in the land ;
But vain is the splendour, though costly and rare,
Unless the warm greeting of welcome be there.
Oh, the welcome! the welcome! ’tis that gives a zest;
Though the fare be but simple, it blesseth the guest;
And he heeds not the walls, though unvarnished and bare,
Nor the uncovered flooring, or rude wooden chair ;
He eats the brown crust, and feels loth to depart,
For the warm smiles of welcome have gladdened his heart*
—Poetical Remains of Mary Chalanor.
OLD SONG.
Shall I, wastynge in despaire,
Die because a womanne’s faire ?
Shall my cheekes grow pale with care,
Because another’s rosie are ?
Be she fairer than the daie,
Or the flowery meades in Maie,
If she thinke not well of me,
What care I how faire she be ?
Shall a womanne’s goodnesse move
Me to perish for herre love ?
Or, her worthie merittes knowne,
Make me quite forgette mine owne ?
Be she kinder, meeker, thanne
The turtle dove, or pelicanne,
If she be not soe to me,
What care I how kinde she be ?
Be she kinde, or meeke, or faire,
I wille ne’er the more despaire;
If she love me, this believe,
I will die ere she shall grieve ;
If she slighte me when I wooe,
I will scorne and let her goe :
If she be not made for me,
What care I for whom she be ?
WITHERS.
SOUL-CREATION.
These words I utter for the Vulgar World
Are not the speech of my in-musing heart;
Where, like to honey by the flower unfurl’d,
There lies a treasure from the World apart:
The World, that cannot pluck from me the art
Of breathing beauty into trembling song;
Which till the blood be stagnant in my veins
Must of prerogative to me belong!
An hour of calm and sea-side loneliness
Will melt out from my mind the grievous stains
Impressed there by forced worldliness;
And as an eve of stillness after storms
Shall my soul be, and with a self-caress
Beget creation of all lovely forms.
WADE.
FIRST THOUGHTS AND SECOND THOUGHTS,
First thoughts are good, and second thoughts are good ;
Those most enrich us, these do best advise.
First thoughts are like first love, and us surprise
With sudden bliss —till second thoughts intrude,
Fraught with wise doubts of much to be eschewed,
Not fit; where yet the greater danger lies,
Lest while we doubt, the vision from our eyes
Offended pass—thereafter vainly wooed.
First thoughts are mistresses with heat pursued,
And mad devotion; second thoughts are wives
Oft wed in over-prudence, and a mood
Most passionless.—The wiseliest contrives
Who adds the judgment while the love survives;
For so shall second thoughts, first thoughts include.
E. H.


police.
The Editor does not hold himself responsible for the opinions and
assertions contained in the correspondence and contributions in-
serted in the Colonial Literary Journal.
We trust that our readers will pardon us for the occasional inser-
tion of an original article by a correspondent, in lieu of the
customary editorial leader, as our space will riot otherwise permit
the insertion of the increasingly-numerous contributions sent us.
We must not deny, too, that it will afford some relief to us from
a quickly-revolving—or rather, unceasingly-devolving — labour.
Jlottcc to ©orresjponfrents.
u Caledonia” will perceive that his communication is inserted in
this day's Journal. We shall be happy to receive his continuing
articles.
One of the hardest tasks which an Editor is called upon toper-
form, is the occasional refusal to insert the literary contributions
sent him by friends and anonymous correspondents. — We regret,
this week, to deny insertion to“ A Squatter’s Complaint.”—
C’s Verses have good points, but the Tale is not told consistently,
as regards commencing with “ light purses,” contrasted with
“ still guineas to rattle” after purchasing land, cattle, fyc. at
high prices. — We cannot, also, give insertion to (( Papers of an
Old Man” at present.
All communications must be addressed to “ The Editor of the
Colonial Literary Journal, General Printing Office, 133,
King-street East,” (post paid.)
Notice to (£ottntrt) Subscribers.
Subscribers in the Country are requested to forward their names
and subscriptions to the nearest Agents, where no Agent has,
as yet, been appointed in their immediate neighbourhood; as
the expense of postage of a letter to the Publishers in Sydney,
is a considerable encroachment upon the very slender amount
of a Quarterly Subscription.
Subscribers are informed that as back Nos. cannot go through
the Post, they must inform us by what means the earlier Nos.
are to be forwarded to them withou t expense to the Publishers.
hi answer to complaints of non-delivery of Papers, we can only
say that the Nos. have been regularly inserted in the Post
Office to their respective directions.
PROPERTIES OF OXYGEN, NITROGEN, AND
HYDROGEN.
As oxygen, nitrogen, and hydrogen, are considered
to be three of the most important agents for the giving
and preserving animal and vegetable life, we will
mention more minutely their distinctive properties.
Oxygen is an elementary body, its name is derived
from the Greek language, and signifies an acid. —
Oxygen exists in greater abundance than any other
body in nature, it forms a great part of the atmos-
phere, the greater part of water ; it exists in all mineral
substances, and is also found as one of the constituents
of both animal and vegetable life. Oxygen gas is
well called vital air, for though it is but one com-
ponent part of atmospheric air, yet, it is to the presence
of this gas, thet w r e owe our continuance in life. We
could not however, live in an atmosphere of pure
0 -' v ) r § en 5 alone, it is not fit for the continuous sup-
poii, of life ; and if w T e were so situated as to breathe
it alone, the increased action of the blood-vessels
w ould cause death ; while on the contrary, if we were
shut up in a room where no supply of fresh air could
enter we should soon cease to live, for by continual
breathing all the oxygen in the room Avould be in-
haled, and when that was exhausted, nature could no
onger survive. We have seen that oxygen is a sun-
porter of combustion, if therefore a fire were kindled
in a room where no air could enter, it would be
extinguished as soon as the oxygen then present was
all combined with the burning coal. During com-
bustion, oxygen enters into the burning material in
f orm 0 S as > kut Avhen it is in combination with
a burnt body, it not only ceases to be a gas, but it
ceases to be oxygen altogether. The burnt material
is first an oxide, in which state the oxygen is solidi-
fied in the substance, and when again the oxide is
subjected to a stronger heat, the oxide becomes an acid
and flies off in vapour. If the combustible from which
the oxide is produced be wood or coal, the vapour will
be carbonic acid gas. This same process takes place
in our own persons and in the bodies of all animals.
We inhale air which contains oxygen gas, but as this
passes through our bodies it becomes changed, and the
air or breath we exhale contains no oxygen, we
breathe forth only carbonic acid gas and the unaltered
nitrogen of the atmosphere which' we inhaled with
the oxygen.
Nitrogen is also found in almost every form of
animal matter, where of course it does not exist as a
gas, but as an elementary substance combined with
other ingredients: nitrogen is in the strictest sense of
the word, a non supporter of combustion. A lighted
taper put into a jar of oxygen gas will burn most
brilliantly, whereas if put into nitrogen gas it will
instantly be extinguished. We can no more live in
an atmosphere all nitrogen than we can in all oxygen,
but the two united and mixed, as they are found in
the air, are absolutely essential to animal life. They
are both called supporters of respiration. Nitrogen
is sometimes called azote, which is a Greek word
signifying privation of life , and was given to nitrogen
on the discovery of its property to destroy animal
life. Nitrogen, as it exists in animal matter, is also
found to be the source of corruption and the basis of
all putrefaction. The presence of nitrogen in the air
prevents the too powerful action of the oxygen during
respiration, and while the oxygen is the chief agent
in rendering the blood subservient to our life and
health, the nitrogen is the agent by whose means all
the corrupt and rejected portions are carried out of
the system. Those portions of matter containing
nitrogen, such as the pith and sinews of animals, are
found to undergo decomposition first, and more
rapidly than those in which it is not found.
Hydrogen is also a Greek word and signifies to
generate water, but although hydrogen forms a con-
siderable part of water, it is in itself an inflammable
gas. Water can be artificially formed by mixing
together the hydrogen and oxygen gases in the due
proportions, and submitting them to violent pressure,
when they will unite instantly and become ignited, a
sound is heard and water is produced. This same
phenomenon is manifested w r hen the w r atery vapours
which ascend high in the air have attracted an in-
crease of oxygen, the bodies ignite, we see the light,
w-e hear the sound ; and torrents of w r ater flow down
towards the earth. Although hydrogen is thus in-
flammable, it will burn only when it is combined
with oxygen. The light and sound which proceed
from the union of these two gases, we call lightning
and thunder, but the sound and light thus denominated
is also produced from other causes ; sometimes, in a
manner quite unknown to us, a cloud will become
charged w T ith an abundance of the electric fluid, which
lies treasured up within it, until another cloud meets
and receives it, or the earth attracts it, from the cloud.
Electric light depends entirely upon the properties of
the matter through which it passes, therefore, in its
passage through watery vapour, the hydrogen is in-
flamed, and in passing through earthy or animal
substances, it is their component parts which become


burnt ; but hydrogen is so easily disengaged from
water that when by its extreme lightness it is carried
np to the higher parts of the atmosphere, any increased
heat will cause it to take fire, and though it may not
explode as in thunder, there will appear broad flashes
of light, which we call summer lightning, and some-
times meteors. Hydrogen is so very abundant in
nature, that it is found in all animal substances, many
minerals, and plentifully in vegetables. If hydrogen
and nitrogen gases were mixed together alone, they
would show no tendency to unite ; but there is one
special instance where they do unite, and cause the
formation of another gas. During the process of
putrefaction which all dead bodies undergo, these two
gases escape together, and in so doing form another
gas, called ammonia or commonly sal-volatile. Hy-
drogen gas is the lightest known form of matter, which
circumstance led to its use in the fitting of balloons ;
but in the present day coal-gas is used for that pur-
pose, as it is produced at much less cost.
When we consider the multitudinous comforts and
conveniences conveyed to us, through the property of
inflammability in hydrogen gas, then again view it
in its mighty and destructive effects, and return in
thought to its union with oxygen as forming water,
we are led to admire the creation and adore the
Creator, “ who made a decree for the rain, and a way
for the lightning and the thunder,” “ a weight for the
winds, and who weigheth the waters.”
PHRENOLOGY.
[For the Colonial Literary Journal.]
No. VII.
A full consideration of the Phrenological develope-
ment of the Aborigines of the colony, demands more
investigation and research than we have had oppor-
tunity to bestow, and a greater amount of talent than
we can bring to bear upon the subject. The subject
indeed requires the genius of a Gall, a Spurzheim, or
a Combe, to treat it in a manner adequate to its
merits, and we cannot but we feel diffidence in in-
truding our observations on this interesting portion of
our subject upon public notice.
Presenting but slight and trivial differences in their
manners and pursuits, since the very recent coloniza-
tion of their country by Europeans, from what they
were characterised by before that period, the Abori-
gines of Australia exhibit an interesting field for
investigation to him who regards with greater interest
the character of a people purely the children of
Nature, unmodified by the forms and customs of civi-
lization and refinement; and how much more so to
the Phrenologist, who can here study the develope-
ment of the passions in the untutored savage of the
wilds, with far greater discrimination and success
than in civilized men, whose bosoms are wrapped in
an impenetrable cloak of reserve thrown over their
passions and feelings by the fastidious and imperious,
though necessary forms of society. It has been re-
marked that, of all the savage and uncivilized nations
in the world, the tribes inhabiting New Holland pre-
sent the lowest and most degraded picture of wretched
humanity, scarcely rising in their grovelling and
debased dispositions above the level of the very brutes.
Though there may appear to be some room for these
severe animadversions, yet we are far, very far, from
feeling inclined to agree in toto with this sweeping
asseveration. It is supposed by the learned, that the
vast island of New Holland is but of recent origin,
having been developed by successive convulsions of
the interior parts of the globe,—and indeed one phi-
losopher has gone so far as to assert, that a comet
coming within the sphere of the attraction of our
planet, flung itself down in the Pacific Ocean, by
which it was flattened, and formed what is now called
New Holland. Will it be believed that some proba-
bility is given to this romantic hypothesis by the fact,
that the elevated parts of the island are mostly situa-
ted near the sea-coast, and that the interior presents
but one uniform level of marshy ground, interspersed
with considerable sheets of water : such a form, in
fact, as a soft body falling upon another would
assume. Verily the errors of the wise display the
greatest folly ! Assuming, however, what we think as
extremely likely, that the island of New Holland is
of but recent origin, we can easily divine why the
Aborigines, from what quarter soever they first came,
are so deficient in even comparative civilization, and
regard with more leniency the barbarism of a race
which has had but scarcely any time to make im-
provements in the pursuits of life. And it will not
be denied that where salutary influence has been
exercised, the poor, despised, sable wanderer of the
wilds of Australia has shewn numerous instances of
intelligence and even refinement, which would rather
surprise those who stigmatize them as the worst spe-
cimen of the human race. We have ourselves con-
versed with individual natives who have manifested
sagacity and intelligence, such as could not fail to
astound us while labouring under false impressions
as to their real character.
Their prevailing and characteristic vice and failing
is indolence. By this we do not intend merely to
imply the common acceptation of the word ; but also
that phrenologically speaking, their temperament par-
takes largely of the lymphatic quality. The influence
of different temperaments produces a corresponding
change in the manifestations of the organs :—thus the
faculties of a man possessed of a bilious temperament
will manifest themselves in a strong and energetic
manner ; in a man of sanguine temperament, in one
more vivacious and active, but less forcible ; in a man
possessing a nervous temperament, in a manner as
remarkable for its brilliancy and sparkling vivacity
as for its want of solidity and substantiality ; and in
a person possessed of a lymphatic temperament, the
faculties will be manifested in a dull, lifeless, listless,
way,—their most energetic effort being like the short-
lived, momentary flicker of an expiring taper. Per-
haps no individual could be found possessed of a
temperament purely bilious, sanguine, nervous, or
lymphatic ; but a person will exhibit a disposition
consonant to the prevailing temperament, though
modified by any admixture. The disposition of the
Aborigines, then, exhibits a considerable portion of
the lymphatic temperament, and as such a quality
predisposes to inactivity and sluggishness, for which
they are noted—being roused from their slothful
torpor only by the trumpet-voice of passion, or the
cravings of continued hunger—here w T e possess the
principal cause why the Aborigines have continued
always at the same point in civilization, and have
not been enabled to cultivate and enlarge those facul-
ties which have been bestowed upon them by the
Giver of all things.
ÆNEAS.


MATHEMATICS.
[For the Colonial Literary Journal.]
No. V.
“ ’Tis the mind that makes the body rich.”
Whatever therefore tends to improve that divina pars,
should be considered by those interested in the edu-
cation of youth, especially as an essential part of their
mental training; the evidence of some of our greatest
men bears us out in this opinion---that the advantages
accruing to youth from the study of Mathematics
generally, or any one branch singly, are of a high
and important character; nor should either parent or
guardian consider any outlay expended on the acqui-
sition as lost, but rather that a treasure has been
gained in the exchange, which will (imperceptibly) be
productive of continual satisfaction to the possessor,
who, himself, will be conscious of the truly solid
gratification arising from a well cultivated mind,
“ More precious than silver or gold.”
The branch of Mathematics which we are now
about to consider, has been held in the highest esti-
mation both by ancients and moderns, which alone
would be sufficient to recommend the science to uni-
versal notice, though it did not possess that intrinsic
merit for which it is so remarkable. In utility it is
not surpassed by any of the sciences, it contributes to
our necessities by administering aid (directly or in-
directly) to almost every trading pursuit. Our artifi-
cers of every description are indebted to it—Architec-
ture depends upon it—Navigation receives a noble
assistance from it—and Astronomy (such as it now
is) could not exist without it.
With its vast utility to us we cannot be too highly
impressed, and no person ought to neglect imprinting
on memory’s page a knowledge of this science ; and
well would the many waste quarter-hours in a man’s
life be employed, could he summon sufficient energy
to devote them to the acquisition of Geometry. The
term implies the science of space, and is derived from
a Greek word which signifies literally the measure-
ment of the earth ; its divisions are three—plane,
solid, and spherical.
Plane consists in comparing lines and angles, by
which we draw conclusions as to plane surfaces.
Solid is confined to the investigation of the proper-
ties of solid figures bounded by planes, and those of
the surfaces of spheres, cylinders and cones, or these
conjointly with planes.
Spherical relates to the lines and sections of a
sphere or circle.
The history of this science, like every other, is
involved in considerable doubt as to the particular
place in w r hich it first made its appearance ; we are
therefore obliged to adopted the most plausible ; it
seems that even the ancient philosophers were unable
to assign any particular place as properly claiming
this honour, and therefore (being further induced by
its importance) attributed it to the gods themselves,
and owned it as a divine gift, expressed by the fol-
lowing couplet from an obsolete English treatise :
“ To teach weak mortals property to scan,
Down came Geometry and formed a plan.”
To affix any precise date to the commencement of
a science would be very difficult, and even slightly
piesumptuous, because man is so constituted that it
requires time to develope his capabilities, and attract
his attention ; thereby proving that every particle of
useful knowledge is the result of experience only ;
and herein lies our difficulty to assign positively a
date to the first appearance of a science which will
not admit of a contradiction ; for we have reason to
conclude, that long before general attention has been
attracted, so as to make it matter of history, it has
been partially understood, and even practically,
though imperfectly applied. With this caution in
view, I will refer to the idea most generally received,
namely, that it had its origin in Egypt, and its inven-
tion is traced to the following circumstance. The
Nile, by its annual inundations, defaced every land-
mark which the inhabitants had to guide them as to
the boundaries of their possessions, from which, as a
matter of course, disputes arose, and “ necessitas
mater artium ,” caused Geometry to be invented.
Sesostris is said to have portioned out the whole
country to his subjects, which assumes a knowledge
of this science ; but it must have been very defective,
if the story concerning Pythogoras be true, that after
his return from Egypt he sacrificed to the Celestial
Gods a hecatomb for having discovered the proportion
which one side of a right angled triangle bore to the
other two ; or that of Thales, who offered an ox on
discovering the method of inscribing a right angled
triangle within a circle ; but that this science first
made its appearance in Egypt we have little doubt.
The earliest schools formed for affording instruc-
tion in Geometry, were those of Pythagoras, and
Thales of Miletus, both versed in Egyptian lore.
Pythagoras founded his at Elea (540 b.c.), in the
south of Italy, having first enriched his mind (by
twenty-two years of unremitting study) with know-
ledge obtained from the wisest nations existing ; from
this seat of learning he sent forth many eminent
philosophers, who were each an encomium on their
master, who first gave to Geometry the form of a
science. Plato, w T ho studied under Euclid of Megara,
was the next great advancer of the science—he was
cotemporary with Archytas and other geometricians.
The name of the last mentioned philosopher occurs in
one of Horace’s odes, which is an amusing dialogue
in derision of the Pythagorean doctrines. Besides
being an astronomer and geometer, he w r as also a
celebrated mechanic, for it is recorded that he invented
and made a w ooden pigeon, w r hich had the power of
volition. The mode in which he caused it to fly was
by “ Libramentis suspensam, et aura spiritus inclusa
atque occulta concitem fec.erat volantem .” Gell. lib.
10, cap. 12.
The next great improver of the science was Leo,
w r ho corrected many inaccuracies in it, and shewed
how to decide on the possibility or impossibility of a
problem.
He was succeeded by the celebrated Eudoxus, who
served as a model for the great Euclid himself, he
flourished about 400 years b.c., and was a pupil of
Archytas already mentioned ; he also travelled to
Egypt—that great resort of the philosophers of that
day, who considered their knowledge incomplete till
they had conversed with the mighty priests of Egypt.
We come now to speak of Euclid of Alexandria,
who excelled all that preceded him, and has been
unequalled by any who have followed in his steps.
All the improvements which have been made in the
science hinge upon his data, 2000 years nearly have
elapsed, and yet his treatise is the standard work, and
esteemed as the first introduction to the Mathematics}


it has been universally adopted as the best geome-
trical instruction book extant, as introductory. It has
never, as I have observed, been equalled in original
matter of its kind. Some of our modern philosophers
have produced treatises, but even by themselves Euclid
has been preferred. In order to appear original they
became lax, and found themselves of necessity con-
stantly gliding back to the fountain head, the per-
spicuity of which is inimitable and unique, and well
adapted from its laborious exactness to be the founda-
tion of Mathematical science.
Moreover it is desirable that Euclid should not be
superseded by any modern treatise (of which there is
little fear), because no real good would ensue, and
because if one appeared, it would only be the herald
of numerous others, till Geometry would loose caste
and be no longer a distinct science—the admiration of
every one who has bestowed attention to the subject;
all rigour would in course of time be relaxed, and
matter of proof would merge into matter of supposition,
in order to avoid referring to data already established.
T. L. D.
ORIGINAL CORRESPONDENCE.
DISTRICT COUNCILS.
To the Editor of the Colonial Literary Journal.
Sir, — I am an unwilling District Councillor, but the
obligations imposed upon me have led me to consider
seriously, the late proceedings of the Legislative and
Executive Government, in connection with those
institutions; and having come to the conclusion that
these proceedings are opposed to the liberties of the
people, itappearsto me remarkable, yea wonderful, that
no popular movement has taken place—no expression
of public opinion, on subjects so intimately affecting
the welfare of future generations.
In free nations the middle rank constitutes all that
we apprehend by the word people, that is to say, the
elements of power and prosperity are with them.
These District Councils were instituted that the people
might exercise their local rights and duties, in the
first place ; and that they might possess their proper
influence on the general government. Among them
are to be found that practical knowledge and good
sense, which, above all other acquirements, qualify
for the Senate. Aristocrats and Lawyers may speak
for weeks about privilege et Lana Caprina —they
may legislate for themselves, and may enjoy forensic
victory and notoriety ; but we must be jealous of
these classes ; they are not the persons to serve the
public: a proportion of small Farmers or Master
Mechanics must sit in the Supreme Legislature, or
these District Councils must be brought into full
operation, to allow them— i.e . the people—their just
share in the government of the country. —Yours, &c.
I. J. T.
Judges’ Circuit. —On account of the indisposition
of the Chief Justice, which of course prevents His
Honor from taking part in the approaching circuit
duties, they will be taken by the other Judges as fol-
lows :— Berrima, Mr. Justice Stephen, on Monday,
2nd September. Maitland, Mr. Justice a’Beckett,
on Wednesday, the 11th September. Bathurst , Mr.
Justice Stephen, on Monday, the 23rd September,
MR. RAE’S SECOND LECTURE ON THE GENIUS
AND CHARACTER OF BURNS.
We proceed to give our readers some slight account of Mr.
Rae’s second lecture on this important topic, delivered at the
School of Arts, on Monday evening the 12th instant.
After a short recapitulation of the substance of his former
lecture, the lecturer—as a further prelude to the more imme-
diate consideration of the subject proposed, and in order, as
he remarked, to do justice to the poet—drew the attention of
his hearers to a few particulars of the life of Burns.
The lecturer commenced with stating that it was not his
intention to give a full biography of Burns, and that he was
not over anxious about the originality of his (the lecturer’s)
remarks ; neither should he hesitate to avail himself of the
labours of others where their views coincided with his own,
nor to speak out boldly where the poet has been unjustly
censured.
Our space will not permit us to follow Mr. Rae in his
account of the birth of Burns in the “ auld clay biggin” on
the banks of the Doon—his parentage—his education, which
was better lhan is generally supposed, and for which he was
principally indebted to himself.
Mr. Rae proceeded to point out the models in his native
dialect, on which Burns formed his poems, “ the chief of
which was Allan Ramsay, the reviver of the rural poetry of
Scotland from the slumber of ages.” Fergusson, also said the
lecturer, was another of Burns’ models, by whom the poems
of the former were much admired.
Speaking of James I. as the earliest, among Scotland’s poets,
Mr. Rae remarked, “It is not a little surprising that the single
nation of modern Europe, which possesses an original rural
poetry of its own, should have received the first model from
the monarch on the throne. It is not often that the crown of
the sovereign is concealed by the bays of the poet; but James
I. had the high honour of planting the seeds of Scottish song,
whose fruit has become so prolific in our own days. Previous
to the appearance of Ramsay, the adventurer of Wallace and
Bruce, as recorded by blind Harry and Barbour, were univer-
sally read by the peasantry of Scotland.”
Though* Burns undoubtedly owed much to these kindred
geniuses, it is to love, as Mr. Rae showed, that we must ascribe
the real origin of his poetry —“ But much as our poet, with the
generous enthusiasm and affection of kindred genius admired
the writings of Ramsay and Fergusson, it was not from these
writings that he derived his earliest poetical inspiration.”....
“ This early intercourse with the gentler and fairer part of God’s
creatures awakened the slumbering music of the soul of Burns,
and gave birth to the earliest of his poetical effusions.” The
lecturer here quoted Burns’ own words in corroboration of
this, and adduced the similar case of Lord Byron as related by
himself, concluding “So says Byron, and many a bard from
Homer to Shakspeare, and from Shakspeare to Burns, could
have told a similar tale —that their first dash into poetry was
4 a woeful ballad made to their mistress’ eye brow.’ ”
The attention to the audience was then drawn to the earliest
compositions of Burns, several of which the lecturer quoted—
commencing at his 20th year. “ His 26th year” Mr. Rae
proceeded, “was rich in poetical production. The Kirk's
Alarm —the Ordination —the Holy Fair —his Address to the
De'il—Death and Dr. Hornbrook —his Epistles to Lapraik —the
Jolly Beggars—Halloiveen —and the Cottar's Saturday niglit-~
were all the produce of a single year ! and any one of the poems
quite sufficient of itself to constitute him a Bard of no ordinary
genius—and all the work of a ploughman—and all written in
the intervals of hard labour, or during the hours of rest, on a
little deal table in a hay-loft over a farmer’s stable, which
served the gifted minstrel of Scotland for a parlour, and study,


and sleeping apartment. If all this is not nature’s doing,
we nuist confess that there are more things in Heaven and
earth, Horatio, than are dreamt of in your philosophy.”
The next portion of Mr. Rae’s lecture included an account
of the personal appearance of the poet, and his connexion with
Jean Armour. Here we quote “ The year 178 G was a period
of many important events to the poet. It was the year of his
connexion with Jean Armour, and all the sweets and bitters,
the transports and agonies, that his imprudent love for that
girl produced. It was the year when the first edition of his
poems saw the light, and it is impossible to depict the enthu-
siasm with which they were received by all classes, for a love
of such poetry belongs to the humblest as well as the highest.
‘ The milk-maid,' says his biographer Cunningham, ‘ sang his
songs, the ploughmen and shepherds repeated his poems, while
the old and sagacious quoted his verses in conversation —glad
to find that matters of fancy might be made useful.’ ”
Mr. Rae proceeded to give a slight account of Burns’ visit
to Edinburgh—the appearance and warm reception of the
second edition of his poems—his tours on the borders and
among the Highlands—his marriage with Jean Armour in
1788 —and his appointment to the excise.
The concluding events of his life were briefly narrated: —
‘’on the 21st July, 1796, he closed his short and mournful
career at the untimely age of thirty-seven years and seven
months.” We cannot but quote Mr. Rae’s remarks at this
part of his lecture :
“ You remember the melancholy death-bed of Lord Byron
at Missolonghi,in Greece. No wife was present to mingle her
tears, or render those delightful services to the sick which
none but woman can render; far from relatives—far from
home —no order—no comfort—no authority in his household
—it was thus that this noble poet, in a land of strangers, and
in a lucid interval from delirium, said to the weeping atten-
dant, ‘ Now I shall go to sleep’—and turning round in his
bed, fell into that slumber from which he never awoke.
“ As it was with the lordly poet Byron, so it was with the
peasant poet Burns. ‘ His household,’ says Cunningham,
‘ presented a melancholy spectacle—the poet dying—his wife
in hourly expectation of being confined—four helpless children
wandering from room to room, gazing on their miserable parents,
and but too little of food or cordial of any kind to pacify the
whole or soothe the sick.’ He might have added—threatened
with prosecution for small sums which he could not pay—with
the terrors of dying in jail staring him in the face—and with
the knowledge that he was leaving his poor wife and helpless
children pennyless in the world, Terrible and dark must have
been the last thoughts of the dying bard—his last looks to this
vale of tears. ‘ A tremour,’ says Maxwell, ‘ pervaded his
frame—his tongue, though often refreshed, became parched ;
and his mind, when not roused to conversation, sank into
delirium.’
“ ‘ Thou art gone
And he who would assail thee in thy grave—
Oh ! let him pause.—For who among us all
Tried as thou wert—and with thy soul of flame—
Could say he had not erred as much and more V ”
Mr. Rae observed that the foregoing chronological facts
seemed to him necessary as an introduction to his future re-
marks on the genius of the poet, and the character of the man.
He quoted Mrs. Riddel for an account of the conversational
powers of the poet, and the general qualities of his mind—
Cunningham for his personal appearance—Carlisle for a com-
parison of Burns with Byron—and Professor Wilson for a
singular coincidence between Burns and Dr. Samuel Johnson.
He concluded “ I have never met with a formal comparison
between Horace and Burns, but I think those who are ac-
quainted with the writings of both poets will be struck witli
the many strong features of resemblance between them.
“ Such was Burns. It is no mean honour for a peasant,
holding the plough, and unacquainted with the classic love of
antiquity, to be compared with the greatest names of his own
country, and the greatest lyric poet of antiquity. But it only
shows that the mind of man has been the same in all ages—
that Greek and Latin are not requisite for calling forth the
genius of the gifted soul—that this beautiful earth which we
inhabit, can exhibit its beauties to the eye of the humblest,
as well as to the highest—that passions, feelings, and affections
—joy and sorrow—love and hatred —rapture and tears, have
no respect to persons—that the cottage and the cottager pre-
sent as fruitful a source for observation, and romance, and
poetry, as the palace and its princely possessors. The lesson
to be learned from the life of Burns is not without its moral—
and it is a moral so plain and intelligible, that he who runneth
may read it.”
The lecturer closed this interesting lecture with a recital of
Campbell’s “ Ode to the Memory of Burns, ” with other pieces.
The audience was numerous, and, as at the former lecture,
received the greatest satisfaction from the subject and manner
of delivery.
Chemists and Druggists Practising Medically.—
At an inquest held before Mr. Wakley, M. P., on Tuesday, at
the Feathers, Warren-street Fitzroy-square, London, on a
child, named Richard Donnally, at the instigation of the
Registrar, who had refused to register the death—on account
of his having received a certificate from Mr. Garman, the
surgeon called in just before the deceased expired, declaring
“ that death had taken place from severe pneumonia, the
probability of recovery defeated by the interference of a pre-
scribing druggist—Mr. Garman declared before the Jury
that he had stepped out of his way upon principle, to expose the
daily increasing practice of chemists and druggists to prescribe
medicine as well as vend it, to the great injury of the health
and danger of the lives of the public. Mr. Wakley said, that
unless a chemist and druggist had received a proper medical
education, he not only acted contrary to the law in treating-
cases medically, but involved himself in a awful amount of
responsibility. Mr. Woolridge, the chemist in the case alluded
to, observed that there were a vast number of poor persons
who could not afford to pay a medical man, and they applied
to chemists for simple remedies. Mr. Wakley regretted to
admit that there were many such cases, but in every instance
the chemist acted most cruelly to his patient, for while he kept
prescribing those simple medicines the disease was progressing
and death might ensue. People generally had a notion that
those who sold drugs knew the use of them. Now, nothing
could be further from the fact, unless in those cases where the
vender had received a proper medical education. In this, as
in all other such cases, he held the person who had prescribed
responsible, and should order a 'post-mortem examination.
He had a case some time since come before him, where
chemist had been doctoring a child, and had given it some
contemptible medicine or other, who was found to have one of
the most frightfully ulcerated throats ever seen, and scarlet
fever, of which the chemist never dreamt. If, therefore, in
such cases the inquest did not step in, there was no knowing
where the destruction of human life would end. The law had
been laid down by the judges, that no chemist had a right to
practise medically under a penalty of £2O for every offence
and the Apothecaries’ Company were bound to enforce it’
Mr. Wells, the Registrar, had done perfectly right in refusing
to register the death upon the receipt of the surgeon’s certificate,
and he (Mr. Wakley) only wished that every other registrar
was as careful as that gentleman.— Pictorial Times
The Mayor’s Fancy Dress Ball took place at
the Victoria Theatre on Wednesday evening, the 21st
instant. It appears to have been an exceedingly
magnificent affair ; but as we speak from hearsay only,
we are unable to give any particulars.
The Benevolent Asylum.— There are 410 in-
door and 153 out-door patients, making a total of
563, obtaining assistance from this institution.


COMMERCIAL REVIEW.
No new feature in commercial transactions has occurred during
the past week, and the markets remain quiet; but although
little or no business has been done, and very few signs °of
renewed activity discernible, holders of imported goods are
firm for advanced prices, as by the latest advices from England,
to hand ex Templar, no manifested to ship to this
colony. The stock of articles, most in demand for general
consumption, is rapidly declining.
W heat. This market remains steady at former quotations.
Adelaide wheat ex Emma, realized 4s. per bushel, cash.
Flour.— This article may be quoted at the low figure of
*lO per ton, cash, which is not remunerative. One or two
millers in town are directing their attention to the manufacture
of Oatmeal, which is in great demand.
Maize. The supply during the week, coastwise, has been
very abundant, and price nominal.
Haw Sales have been brisk at an average of £3 10s. per ton.
Bacon. Is quite unsaleable if too fat, a quantity brought
to market only realized 2|d. per lb.
Butter.— ls scarce and in great demand, the dealers have
given as high as 15d. per lb.
Cheesf..—May be quoted wholesale at 2£d. per lb.
Tobacco.— The supply continues much greater-than the
demand, and prices vary according to quality ; Is. per lb. only,
was offered at auction for BoydelPs brand.
B. S. LLOYD,
Commission Agent, Bridge-street.
August 28tb, 1844.
Shipping 3Entdltg*ncc.
ARRIVALS.
August 22.—The steamer Maitland, 103 tons, Captain Par-
sons, from Port Macquarie, with sundries.
August 23.—The brig Christina, 126 tons, Captain Saunders,
from Port Phillip, the 16th instant, with potatoes, &c.
August 24.—The steamer William the Fourth, 53 tons,
Captain Wiseman, from the Clarence, 22nd instant, with 30
casks of tallow, 28 bales of wool, &c.
August 25.—The brig Dorset, 82 tons, Captain Walsh, from
Adelaide, the 15th instant, with wheat, ore, &c.
August 26. The steamer Sovereign, 119 tons, Captain
Cape, from Moreton Bay, the 23rd instant,with wool, tallow, &c.
August 27.—The ship Templar, 565 tons, Captain Brown,
from London the 2nd, and Cork, the 16th of May; with 242
emigrants.
August 27.“~The ship Corinthian, American, Captain
Easterbrook, from the Whale Fishery, 21 months out, with
650 barrels sperm, and 400 barrels black oil.
August 27.—The schooner Coquette, 72 tons, Captain Cum-
mins, from Port Phillip, the 23rd instant, with 53 bales wool,
62 bags potatoes, &c.
DEPARTURES.
August 21. —The schooner Coolangatta, Captain Napper,
for Auckland and the Bay of Islands, with sundries.
August 21.—The schooner Waterlily, Captain Hayle, for
Hobart Town, with sundries.
Auguss 22.—The brig Prince Albert, Captain Craib, for
Auckland, with sundries.
August 22.—The schooner 1 Don't Know, Captain Phelps,
for the Bay of Islands, with sundries.
August 23. The steamer Shamrock, Captain Gilmore, for
Boyd Town, Port Phillip, and Launceston, with sundries.
August 26.—The schooner Shamrock, Captain Brown, for
Auckland, with sundries.
August 27. —The schooner Mariner, Captain Ford, for Port
Phillip, in ballast.
Dn the 20th instant, at her residence, Wardell’s Cottage
Pitt-street South, Mrs. J. H. Rucker, of a daughter.
J^tarriagcs.
On the 20th instant, by special license, at Port Macquarie,
by the Rev. J. Cross, Norman John M’Leod, Esq., of Geelong,
Port Phillip, third son of the late Donald M’Leod, Esq., Tal-
lisker, and formerly of Van Diemen’s Land, to Agnes, third
daughter of Alexander Paterson, Esq., of Sydney, solicitor.
On the 20th instant, by special license, at Port Macquarie,
by the Rev. J. Cross, Mordaunt Maclean, Esq., of Broulee,
eldest son of Captain Maclean, of Sydney, to Marion, fourth
daughter of the late Major M’Leod, of Tallisker.
A CKAE^EM-GS,
TO ENGLAND, IRELAND, SCOTLAND, AND ALL THE WORLD
BESIDE.
WALKER’S PATENT GROATS.
THIS ARTICLE, if tested, will be found to contain more
nutriment, than any similar article of the kind. E.
Walker is prepared to prove that two thirds of the quantity of
the above, if made in a proper manner, will be equal in nourish-
ment, and of a thjcker substance, than the usual quantity
generally recommended by others in the directions for use.
Another desirable property belonging to Walker’s Patent
Groats is, as regards the great safety for export—not liable to
that change which the English manufacture is, by turning
sour on the voyage, avoided by the patent mode of preparation 0 ,
and greatly aided by the spontaneous growth of the grain
grown in this Country; while free from the artificial culture
which causes so much moisture in the farina of the English
grain, and scarcely ever eradicated or sufficiently prepared.
Enough already is before the public to satisfy them that
Walker’s Farinaceous Food, (for Children and for Persons with
impared digestion,) ought not to be despised, and which for
the future will be packed in Tin Canisters, in order to preserve
its most agreeable flavour. With the usual white label—
sealed and signed Edward Walker—that only being genuine.
Wholesale orders to any extent will be immediately at-
tended to ; any export order exceeding ten gross of either
article, terms, half Cash, and the remainder when the goods
are resold.
Manufactory, Old Botany Road.
a ciuia,
EDWARD MYERS begs most respectfully to inform his
friends and the public that he has commenced business
as a General Commission Agent.
E. M. can supply the trade with Wines, Spirits, Cigars, &c.,
of a superior quality, and at the lowest prices, for cash.
Purchases, Sales, and all other Agency business effected on
the most reasonable terms, and with dispatch.
Orders addressed to No. 59, Castlereagh-street South, will
be punctually attended to.
August 27th 1844.
PIT AISJS CHOSS-CUT SAWS,
A case of the above, of good sizes, and in excellent condi-
tion.
Also, a large quantity of handsome Tea and Hand Trays, to
be sold cheap.
H. K. lIEYDON, King-street.
WASTE PAFSE.
CLEAN PAPER, in sheets and otherwise, (being the ac-
cumulation of the last 3 years) may be had at the
General Printing-Office, No. 133 King-street.
August 28th 1844.
I^EEAES.
NOW ON SALE, ex Hindoo, a large assortment of
Repeal, Temperance, Confirmation, Nelson, and Tunnel
Medals, with Cathedral and others of a very beautiful descrip,
tion, adapted for presents.
The attention of Temperance Societies is especially invited
to five hundred beautiful Temperance Medals, which will be
sold cheap.
Specimens may be seen at Mr. Reading’s Printing Office,
133, King-street East.
Agents for this Journal.
Sydney, Mr. W. Jones, Circulating Library, Brickfield-hill.
Parramatta Mr. Hugh Taylor.
Windsor Mr. Walker.
Bathurst Mr. Tress.
West Maitland Mr. Galloway.
Camden, Campbelltown, Penrith, and *
Liverpool Mr. C. Lester.
Gunning Mr. Hawthorne.
