

COLONIAL
LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
“ Non tua te moveant, sed publica vota.”
Vol. I. No. 6.]
SYDNEY, THURSDAY, AUGUST 1, 1844.
[Price 4d.
FANCY AND IMAGINATION.
“ Fancy is comfort oft.” S hakespeare.
“ Imagination
Drives us beyond the bounds of patience.”— lbid.
“ And wraps the hour of woe in tenfold night.”—Beattie.
What is life, says Sir Egerton Brydges, without fancy
to gild its scenery, and brighten the colours of dull
reality ? He who has not fancy, is deficient in the
noblest gem of intellect, and wants the lamp to cheer
him in the dark paths of this wilderness of trouble.
In solitude and in poverty it can bring before us
the gladsome voice of society, and the enlivening array
of wealth ; in absence it can restore the object o£ our
affection ; and in age bring back the delights of youth.
Without it, the images of nature—the morning dawn,
the evening shadows, the prospect of mountains and
vallies, the spreading landscape, the smiling meadow
and the recluse dell, the purling streamlet and the
mighty ocean, the revival and the fall of the leaf and
the flower, and the changing colours of the seasons,
lose more than half their impression, and almost all
their intellectual and moral delight.
What is the prime source of their charm, but the
affecting association of ideas which by the aid of fancy
they excite ? A vivid imagination combines with them
past or distant objects, and peoples every scene with
its appropriate inhabitants.
It is doubtless for the most beneficent purposes that
we are endowed with a keen sensibility for the charms
of nature. They appeal irresistibly to our delighted
senses, and there are few of our earliest impressions
but what are intermixed with some look of the sky,
or the fields, or the woods. Most of us can remember,
connected with some childish exploit, numerous images
of nature; and surely may be allowed to look
back upon such pure and virtuous sensations with
satisfaction and delight.
In the mind of the poet the power of imagination
reigns in all its splendour. Let but one idea be
waked from without, and a thousand beautiful creations
grow around it, to which his pen may give form and
utterance.
Why these powers are given in such profusion to
some, when they are dispensed so sparingly to others,
it is not for human wisdom to determine. The gift
of acute sensibility becomes a blessing or a curse
according to the degree of discretion and judgment by
which it is accompanied ; and a fearful risk is entailed.
To a person possessed of “morbid” sensibility, every
day, every hour, presents trials of his fortitude and
patience more than equal to those which, to an in-
dividual less tremblingly alive, are caused by the
roughest passages of life. Superior sensibility and
taste, if they confer superior happiness, it is well
known, also open to a keener sense of sorrow. The
forms of grief, pain, and misfortune, are, to such, sur-
rounded by tribes of attendant spectres, which appear
Numerous and terrific in proportion as the fancy is
powerful.
“The heart that is soonest alive to the flowers,
Is always the first to be touched by the thorns.”
It is on the colourings imparted by fancy to the
dull realities of life, that the half of human happiness
depends ; and, according to its regulation, does imagi-
nation prove the bane or blessing of life. The poet,
alone, should avoid, as much as possible, every in-
auspicious impression by which the happy illusions
can be dissolved. So far, in his case, from reflecting
on the morbid sensibility of the votaries of fancy, we
are inclined to assert that he whose feelings are not
acute, sometimes even to disease, can never touch the
true chords of the lyre. Without a continued fami-
liarity with all those hurried and impetuous feelings,
which brought him to a premature grave, could Bums
have written those enchanting songs which breathe so
high a tone of fancy and passion ? Yet how delightful
to possess a perpetual memorial of some of those “ ten
thousand glorious visions,” which are always floating
across the brain of the highly endowed !
Nothing is more melancholy than to behold a man
of real intellect endeavouring to move the affections,
and to rouse the imagination and taste, of those in
w'hom these qualities are utterly dormant, in whose
breasts perhaps even the germs do not exist. The
harshness, error, and obstinacy of worldly-minded
ordinary characters would be nothing, if it were not
for the tendency in the sensitive and highly-gifted, to
endeavour to inspire them with feelings kindred to
their own, and to look to them (alas, how vainly !)
for brotherly love, support, and consolation. Thus it
must ever be when the man of feeling , instead of
retiring within himself, and looking to himself alone,
for the means of enjoyment, allows his happiness to
depend on the caprice of others.
There are many to whom these sensations are in-
comprehensible, or considered only as the wanderings
of the insane. They value and can comprehend only
palpable facts, and the dry deductions of cold reason-
ing. They affect to have no concern but with truth,
by which they mean some material perception in the


exact form and modulation in which it is palpable to
the senses ; or some axiom which is the result of a
strict chain of legitimate deduction.
It was thus that an eminent mathematician could
find no merit or amusement in our choicest poets,
because he could perceive no proof in them. He
brought to the poet’s page no treasure of images which
slept upon his senses, and only wanted the sound of a
poet’s voice to wake them into instant life and activity :
he brought not a tremulous heart whose silent chords
if slightly touched w T ould long continue involuntarily
the tones of sympathetic music. He brought only
faculties abstract and dry, that furnished nothing on
which the beams of genius could play; or must play
without reflection and unfelt.
It is desirable that a severe and philosophic east of
character, whose constant occupation it is to chastise
and regulate its own ideas, should exist in a portion of
the cultivated classes of mankind. Of these it is the
business to separate, and not to combine. They will
admit of no comparisons that are not exact, no acci-
dental coalitions of thought or imagery ; but clearing
their way, examining them one by one, and putting
each into a classed arrangement, they produce an arti-
ficial and yet more matter-of-fact shape of things,
which destroys the spell of the muse, and makes
poetry but an idle and confused dream.
Let such continue their-useful labours! It is right
that we should know the fallacies of those delusions,
which must not be indulged by all.
While we acknowledge that without imagination,
all is “ weary, stale, and unprofitable,” and that with
it, unless it is regulated by strenuous exertion, the
spectre forms of dread reality are aggravated instead
of being concealed, we must distinguish between cul-
pable deception, and that delicious power by which a
celestial colouring, a “ sort of purple light,” is thrown
over the sad realities of life, by which vice and folly
are for a while concealed from the view, and spectres
and imagery of horror converted into angels of inno-
cence and beauty.
In conclusion, the utmost caution and the exercise
of the aiding virtues are necessary for the preservation
and due regulation of our imaginative powers ! “ The
seasons of care, of grief, or of business,” observed
Alison, “ have other occupations, and destroy, for the
time at least, our sensibility to the beautiful and
sublime, in the same proportion that they produce a
state of mind unfavourable to the indulgence of imagi-
nation.” In order to avoid as much as possible the
“ seasons of care and of grief,” how indispensably
requisite is prudence; and how difficult is it for an
individual endowed with fancy and feeling, to possess
at the same time in a high degree the reasoning
powers !
Yet these powers are indispensably requisite for the
conservation of a highly endowed mind. The tranquil
and cheerful performance of duty , in whatever situation
we are placed, is also indispensable. But how difficult
is cheerfulness when imagination aggravates every evil,
and when the chilling realities of life force themselves
on the view ! A genuine love of virtue, for its own
sake in the first place, and the soothing confidence
that there is a future state where all may yet be well,
in the second, afford the best consolations of which
our present existence is capable.
THE ATTORNEY.
An Attorney primarily signifies any one who is appointed by
another to transact any business for him in his absence; but
an Attorney-at-Law, of whom we are now to speak, is a person
who manages the Law business of another, for whom he is
retained; the term being analogous to the procurator or
proctor of the civilians and canonists in the ecclesiastical
courts.
Anciently, according to the old Gothic constitutions, every
suitor was obliged to appear and prosecute or defend his suit
in person, unless by special license from the king; and this
still continues to be the rule in criminal cases. But by sundry
old statutes from that of Westm. 2, c. 10, permission was
granted to Attorneys to prosecute or defend any civil suit in
the absence of the parties. An idiot, however, cannot at this
day, prosecute or defend by his Attorney, but must appear in
person.
Attorneys are admitted to the execution of their office, by
the superior courts at Westminster Hall. They are considered
as officers of the respective courts in which they are admitted;
on which account, they enjoy many privileges; and are pecu-
liarly subject to the censure and animadversion of the judges.
In order to enable a person to practice as an Attorney, in any
of these courts, he must be admitted and sworn an Attorney
of that particular court; and an Attorney in the Court of
King’s Bench cannot practice in the Common Pleas, hor can
an Attorney in the Common Pleas, practice in the Court of
King’s Bench. To practice in the Court of Chancery, it is
also necessary to be admitted a Solicitor therein.
The business of an Attorney is one of the most important
occupations which can engage the attention of a conscientious
man, in the present state of society. To him, the oppressed
repair to-learn by what means the oppressor is to be resisted;
to him, the orphan and the friendless look, as to one who
knows how to direct them to recover their property or their
rights. The Attorney it is to whom, as a Conveyancer in pre-
paring deeds, bonds, mortgages, marriage settlements, &c., we
confide the transfer and security of our monies, our goods,
and our estates. It is the Attorney before whom we lay those
documents, upon his opinion of which we buy and sell land,
houses, and a variety of other property depending more espe-
cially upon what is usually called, the Title to their possession.
By these means, it is the Attorney who has an opportunity
of knowing the most intimate affairs of individuals in every
relative situation in life; and it is the Attorney, thus invested
with so much power, who has an opportunity of becoming
either a blessing or a curse to the neighbourhood in which he
resides : for such is now the complexity of our laws, that it is
scarcely possible for a plain and simple-minded man to meddle
with them without having his Attorney at his elbow, unless
he chose to run the great risk of being overthrown and
defeated, even in the best of causes.
If, therefore, instead of that manliness and integrity, which
should dignify an Attorney, he abuse the confidence reposed in
him, and descend to the low and petty arts of fomenting litiga-
tion and strife between contending parties, for the mere pur-
pose of filling his own pocket, or to gratify the malignity of
some tyrant in power, it is evident that there is no term in
language sufficiently strong to designate the man. If, on the
contrary, an upright man, well acquainted with the laws and
their forms, but knowing the fallibility of human nature, and
the fallible nature of testimony too, if such a man should be an
Attorney, how much strife can he not prevent, how much
misery and distress can he not cure!
The legislature has, from time to time, passed various acts
relative to the conduct and powers of Attorneys, who are liable
to be punished in a summary way, either by attachment, or
having their names struck off the roll, for ill practice, attended
with fraud and corruption, and committed against the obvious
rules of justice and common honesty; but the court will not
easily be prevailed on to proceed in this manner, if it appear
that the matter complained of was rather owing to neglect or
accident, than design ; or if the party injured, has other remedy
by act of parliament, or action at law.
Attornies have the privilege to sue, and be sued, only in the
courts at Westminster, where they practise.
Besides the obligations of fidelity to his client, the Attorney
owes him secrecy ; and in certain cases, an action lies at the
suit of his client for neglect of duty: but such actions are
extremely rare.
Persons who are bound clerks to Attornies or Solicitors, are
to cause affidavits to be made and filed of the execution of the
articles, names and places of abode, of Attorney or Solicitor,
and clerk, and none are to be admitted till the affidavit be pro


duced and read in\court ; no Attorney having discontinued
business, is to take a clerk. Clerks are to serve actually
during the whole time, and make affidavits thereof. Persons
admitted sworn clerks in Chancery, or serving a clerkship to
such, may be admitted Solicitor. By the stat. 23 Geo. 2. c. 26,
any person duly admitted a Solicitor, may be admitted an
Attorney, without any fee for the oath, or any stamp to be
impressed on the parchment whereon his admission shall be
written, in the same manner as, by stat. Geo. 2. c. 23. § 20,
Attorneys may be admitted Solicitors.
Every Attorney and Solicitor must annually take out a
certificate from the courts in which they practise; if the
Attorney reside in London, and has been admitted three years
or upwards, the stamp duty, for his certificate, is ten pounds;
if less than three years, five pounds; if he reside elesivliere,
and has been admitted three years or more, the stamp for his
certificate is six pounds ; less than three years, three pounds.
The stamp duty for the articles for an Attorney’s clerk, in
order to have admission to the courts of law, is one hundred
and ten pounds.
The expense of establishingayoung man as an Attorney, con-
sists in an apprenticejfee of sometimes three, or even five hundred
guineas, the expenses afterwards, in admission to the courts
of law, the stamp duties and books ; which, if properly se-
lected, amount in value to many hundred pounds, Some young
men who are desirous of excelling as Attornies, will, after the
expiration of their clerkship, place themselves in the office of
some eminent Attorney, to obtain experience, or become pupils
to a Barrister for a limited period.
[lt will be apparent to the generality of our readers that
much of the foregoing is only applicable to the English
Attorney. In this Colony the disuse of stamps, and the
general laxity of the rules of the profession, cause a material
deviation from the customs of the mother country as regards
this profession.— Ed. C. L. J.]
PERSONS WHO “ KNOW ALL ABOUT IT.”
[From “ Persons whom Everybody has seen.”]
When people draw their chairs close to the fender,
stir the fire vigorously, rub their hands upon their
knees, assume a look of complacent sagacity, and
proceed to open up a long story with the confidential
remark that they are going to tell us “ all about it,”
they oftentimes remind us—dull companions though
they be—of that outrageous and incomprehensible
piece of drollery of Foote’s, which the wise reader who
loves genuine nonsense never forgets :
“ So she went into the garden to cut a cabbage to
make an apple-pie, and who should be coming down
the street but a great she-bear and popp’d her head
into the shop. What, no soap ?—So he died; and
she very imprudently married the barber. And there
were present the Joblilies, and the Garruyillies, and
the Piccaiilies, and the great Panjandrum himself
with the little round button at top; and they all fell
to playing the game of catch-us-as-catch-can, till
the gunpowder ran out at the heels of their boots!”
There is only one suitable termination for stories of
this simple and lucid character, and it is that which
custom always has ready —“ and so now you know
ail about it.”
W'hen there are a great many facts to relate, with
great anxiety to pour them out all at once, a little
crowding and confusion must be considered excusable.
But it is frequently much the same where there is but
a solitary fact to disclose ; for then the innocent mean-
ing falls a victim to the turbulent rushing of a mob
of words. Thus the spirit of the “ great Panjandrum
with tne little round button at top,” breathes intensely
m tne-following—the opening passage of a printed
circular which a learned schoolmaster in the City of
London lately addressed to the authorities of Aldgate.
Gentlemen—Thank you for the unbounded con-
ence which you have placed in my management
during a period of six years and upwards, in every
part of which I may fearlessly assert the faithful dis-
charge of an arduous duty. Circumstances not less
to my prosperity than, under the blessing of God, to
my happiness, induce me to this otherwise unpleasant
task: but, should that which I have glanced at not
be the reality anticipated, then I am sure it will be
highly gratifying to learn that it is ascertained, more
by the frequent observation of others, than my own
experience, that a considerable fortune awaits me in
another profession.”
The writer not only intended to resign, but he
intended to say so, only the great Panjandrum would
not let him. When schoolmasters thus flourish in
print, who can wonder that pupils persist in playing
the game of catch-us-as-catch-can until the gun-
powder runs out at the heels of their boots !
You may know the man who means to tell you all
about it, directly his countenance comes in view. His
cheeks are puffed out with words “ that breathe,” and
his eyes are distended with thoughts “ that burn” to
find utterance. His appearance is that of a man who
must tell his story at once or explode; yet when you
come to hearken, you find he has nothing to tell. He
has plenty of passages leading no where, and they are
all “ to be continued.”
He is for ever wandering in a maze, conducting
you all about, but not out of it; he is coming to a
sure exit at every fresh turn, and yet is always where
he was. He never finds out the right track but to
lose himself in it, and misses his way only to feel all
the more confidence in his own cleverness. He is
continually busy in disclosing vast secrets, not a word
of which does he ever communicate ; and is eager to
offer you the clearest explanations, which can never
be explained themselves. He never spoke without
saying too much, and yet never said anything in his
life. When he tells you all about it, it is about the
shell of the nut, which he never cracks—and you hear
not a word concerning the kernel. He lesembles the
old riddle—“ Round the house, and round the house,
without touching the house.” Life is too short to
warrant the expenditure of a single hour upon the
remorseless prolixities of these round about ramblers.
He has no right to cheat me of my morning, because
he is doomed for his sins to get rid of his own. If
he must tell us something about John Smith, let him
at least allow John Smith’s father to sleep quietly in
the grave, and not rip up ancient grievances by begin-
ning like those abominable nuisances, the brown-
coated old baronets on the stage, with “ Let me see,
it is now exactly tw T enty-three years ago this day,
since ”
If the gentle Howard himself had failed to hiss
furiously at this point, he would have proved himself
more fool than philanthropist.
Grant that they have had u goose three days run-
ning” at No. 6—that Hick’s man has been taken up
for swindling—that the nursemaid opposite has got
another clean clerk to walk round the corner with—
and that the Bolts have gone away in the night—still
there is no necessity for a volume upon each incident,
the incident itself being after all left out of the
volume. Tell us the event, if you must —but spare
us “ all about it.”
The witness-box is often an excellent place for the
display of “ Knowledge under no Difficulties.” There
you continually meet with people, who are prepared


at a moment’s notice, whatever the case may be, to
tell his worship all about it. Bring them to the point,
however, his worship cannot, although he is many
times assured that “ that’s what they’re coming to.”
They know everything and everybody, except the
circumstances of the affair, and the parties about
whom they are interrogated. They saw' nothing done
and they heard nothing said ; but they have been in-
formed by one whose name they don’t know', that
something did take place, and they have certain
thoughts of their own which are much at everybody’s
service. This is what they call knowing all about it.
History.
ANCIENT HISTORY: SECTION IV.
OF THE PHOENICIANS.
1. The Phoenicians were among the most early civi-
lized nations of the East. We are indebted to them
for the invention of writing, and for the first attempts
at commercial navigation.—The fragments of San-
choniatho, which have been preserved by Eusebius,
are the most ancient monuments of writing after the
books of Moses. Sanchoniatho was contemporary with
Joshua, about 1440 b.c. and 500 before the cities of
Attica were united by Theseus.
2. The Phoenicians (the Canaanites of Scripture)
were a commercial people in the days of Abraham.
Their situation, occupying a narrow country on the
eastern coast of the Mediterranean, and confined on
all quarters towards the land by the surrounding
tribes, naturally induced them to turn their attention
to navigation. In the time of the Hebrew judges,
they had begun to colonise. Their first settlements
were Cyprus and Rhodes; thence they passed into
Greece, Sicily, Sardinia, and Spain, and formed
establishments likewise on the western coast of Africa.
The Sidonians carried on an extensive commerce at
the time of the Trojan war.
3. Tyre was colonized from Sidon, and these two
cities were amongst the most illustrious of antiquity.
The former does not appear to have existed in the
time of Homer, for he makes frequent mention of
Sidon, but says nothing of Tyre. The Tyrians were
extremely industrious, and discovered many of the
useful arts. To them we owe the invention of the
making of glass, and the Tyrian purple is celebrated
by all ancient authors. Tyre appears to have rapidly
risen to great splendour, and to have surpassed its
parent-state in opulence and extensive commerce.
But its greatness was of no long duration. It was
destroyed by Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, about
567 b.c., and again by Alexander the Great (332 b.c.)
after a siege of seven months, which was considered
the greatest exploit of that mighty conqueror.
THE YOUNG PHILANTHROPIST AND THE
OLD BRUTE.
A STORY FOR THE TIME TO COME.
BY J. B. BUCKSTONE.
It was a bitter night in January; few and shivering
were the pedestrians of the streets of London ; icebergs
floated on the river, a sharp north-easterly wind cut
every half-clad and homeless creature to the bone ;
the chimes of Westminster Abbey tolled the hour of
eleven ; their very sounds seemed to tremble and die
in the freezing air, as they were listened toby a figure
leaning against the low wall that faces a gloomy and
moated building on that side of the Thames called
Milbank. The form was that of a woman : her face
had been buried in her hand till the chiming of the
hour roused her from her position: she looked earnestly
towards the miserable building, walked or rather
tottered a few paces, then turned and gazed again.
“ Three weeks only gone,’’ she exclaimed, “of the
long, long year that must pass before I may ever see
him again—l shall not live till the end of it—l can-
not- I feel that I cannot-,” —and she drew a thin and
tattered cloak closely around her, as the ruthless
wind swept by upon that desolate bank: the cry of a
child was heard beneath her wretched garment: she
strove in vain to hush it, till the cold-stricken infant’s
screams struck terror into the heart of its miserable
mother.
“ What can I do to help you, dear ?” was her sob-
bing question. “ You are cold, you must be, for f
am shivering from head to foot—l have not tasted
food to-day, and nothing have I for you, poor dear L
where Nature teaches you to turn for nourishment :
it were better that we both lie down to die—if we can
but fall asleep on such a night as this, neither of us
will ever wake again.” And she sank by the road-
side, exhausted.
The cries of the child were silenced for a time,
and she appeared to strive to invite slumber ; but in
vain ; for, suddenly starting up, she said, “He will
be again at liberty ; the bitter lesson he has known
will make him more cautious, he will not again be the
dupe of wretches; and if some good Christian would
but listen to my sad story, and relieve me for a time all
may yet be well. No, no, I must strive against this
affliction: though I could not help crawling, even on
this wretched night, to look upon the dark walls that
surround my husband, and the father of my child.
God help me ! for lam afraid none upon earth
will.”
She moved forwards with great rapidity, till she
reached one of those lonely streets near the Abbey.
An old man walked hurriedly by her, well wrapped
up and defended against the weather—his mouth care-
fully covered to avoid a thick fog which had suddenly
followed the subsiding of the wind. In spite of his
precautions the foul air penetrated to his lungs, and a
violent cough compelled him to pause. The woman
whom he had passed, approached him, and exclaimed,
“ Pray, Sir, look with pity on the poor and houseless
on such a wretched night!”
To this appeal no reply was given ; the old man
hastened on, the woman seemed to gain courage, and
kept pace with him ;he waved her back with his
hand : she stopped, uttered a piteous groan, and looked
after the cruel one w’ho had so repulsed her. He
arrived at the door of a dirty old-fashioned house,
knocked and rang. Before the door could be opened
the woman was again at his side—“ For heaven’s sake,
Sir,” she said earnestly “be charitable—l have no
home, and this poor child”—He did not allow her to
conclude the appeal, but in a harsh voice bade her
“ go away ;” she sank on her knees to him ;he laughed,
muttered the word “ impostor !” and again rang the
bell A severe-looking female appeared at the door,
bearing a light. “ Martha,” said the old man, as he
entered the house, ‘‘give that woman in charge to
the police.” The request, however, was not complied


with, the door w 7 as instantly closed; the noise of
bolts and chain w'as heard —and, as the morning
dawned, a young female, and an infant clasped in her
arms, w r ere discovered on the step of that door frozen
to death !
Who can she be ? anxiously inquired the crowd
that gathered round the old man’s house.
They w r ere bearing away the bodies, when a person
knocked to inquire if the inmates of the dwelling
knew anything of the sad catastrophe. The old man
appeared at the door; his hair and beard, the latter
of a week’s growth, were grey ; his eyes were deeply
set in his head, and overshadowed by white and bushy
brow 7 s ; and, as he thrust forth his withered counte-
nance in order to reply to the question put to him, it
assumed an expression of such ferocity, that the bye-
standers shrunk in more fear from the face of that
living man, than from the placid countenances of the
dead before them. Cl Do you know anything about
them?” was the question. 11 No,” croaked the old
man, “ I do not, except that the woman was a beggar,
and followed me last night as I came home late from
the city : had my servant done done as I desired her,
this might not have happened. Now begone, and
don’t create a disturbance before my house.”
He disappeared, the door was sharply closed, and
the crow r d bearing the dead passed on. “ An old
brute!” remarked one; 11 he gave her nothing, I’ll
be bound, and they say that he is worth thousands.”
* * * * *■ *
It was a lovely morning in spring ; the fruit-trees
were clothed in blossom, the graceful laburnum
drooped in golden beauty, the birds sang gaily in the
green hedges; the French windows of a small but
elegant villa on the riverside were open, and a young
man walked forth upon the lawn, to enjoy that genial
and delightful day ; he was attended by his valet;
and, basking in the rays of the sun, sipping his cho-
colate, took a letter from the pocket of his elegantly-
figured morning gowrn, and, giving it to the man,
desired him to deliver it in the course of the day as
directed. “ It contains,” said he, “ a trifle for the
widow 7 of the poor fisherman w 7 ho was drowmed last
week;” and, added he, “ see that my half-yearly
subscription for the relief of the houseless poor be
paid to-morrow r and with a smile he gave his
empty cup to the valet, and passed with an air of
contentment into his garden, where his gardener was
working; the young man approached him—“ Are
you happy now, Thomas?” was the question put to
the labourer.
“ Quite, Sir, and I shall ever bless the day that I
met you. If you had not taken me without a cha-
racter, my little family must have gone to the work-
house,” w 7 as the reply.
“ Well,” added the young man, u whether the
charge against you were false or not ”
“ Quite false, Sir,” interrupted the man.
‘‘Whether it was false or not, I hope that my
kindness in receiving you into my service will make
you grateful, and that your gratitude will teach you
honesty while you are with me : I believe the charge
of theft made against you in your last place to be
unfounded, and trust that your good conduct here will
prove it so.”
“ It shall, Sir, and Heaven bless.you !” was the
reply of the wrinkled gardener. And the young man
passed on with a light step and a cheek flushed with
the consciousness of a heart possessing every charitable
feeling for human nature. He walked to the front
of his villa, and hung over the gate opening to the
high-road : while looking with satisfaction on all
around, a beautiful girl approached the gate, carrying
a letter : she blushed as she handed it to him. It
was from her father, an industrious tradesman in the
neighbourhood, who, in losing his wife, had, in his
sorrow, suffered his business to be neglected. He
became the inmate of a prison, leaving his eldest
daughter, the bearer of the letter, and two young
children, unprotected : his misfortunes reached the
ears of the young philanthrophist now hanging over
the gate. The tradesman’s debts w r ere paid, and his
family reinstated in their old house and business.—
This letter was one of thanks: he perused it with
pleasure, asked the young girl into his house-* directed
the servants to offer her refreshment, and put a bank-
note into her hand as she departed. The girl trembled,
curtsied, and went home.
The young man reclined in his easy chair, and,
surveying himself in a Psyche before him, was, for
the moment, the happiest man in existence ; the bless-
ings and praises of all who had experienced his kind-
ness rang in his ears. “ Everybody respects me,”
said he ; “ respects me ! they love me !”—and, in the
joy of his heart, he sprang into a light wherry that
w T as moored at the extremity of his lawn, and pulled
gaily with the tide down the river. “ How delight-
ful it is,” thought he, “ to have wealth and apply it
as Ido ! How every one must talk of me ! I should
like to hear what they say, but that is impossible ;”
and, with a sigh, he landed at Chelsea, trusted his
w herry to the care of a waterman, to whom he flung
a guinea, and to “ Poor Jack” a crown. Both stared
after him in astonishment. “ I wonder what they
will say of me ?” thought he to himself.
His cab had followed him on the river-side ; he
leaped into it, his smart tiger hung on behind, and
his tine horse nobly stepped out towards town. He
dined at one of his clubs, and reading over the adver-
tisements in the newspaper after dinner, his constant
custom, with a view to discover some new r case of
distress which he could delight himself by relieving,
found one object of compassion perishing for w T ant in
the neighbourhood of Walworth. Not a moment was
to be lost : he wmuld fly to her relief ; and ten mi-
nutes more found him crossing Waterloo Bridge in
his w T ay to the abode of wretchedness. The evening
was as clear, and as calm, as the morning had been
beautiful. He thought again, with heartfelt satis-
faction, on all the good that he had done, and on that
which he was going to do, and, as he complacently
looked upwards to the brightly shining stars, “ Oh
lovely worlds,” he exclaimed ; “ if you are the
abodes of the blessed, surely I may hope to inhabit
one of you, when it may be my lot to quit this less
favoured planet!” His reverie w 7 as interrupted by
observing a man ascend the parapet of the bridge
within a few of him, w 7 ho fiunghisarms wildly
in the air, and seemed preparing to plunge into the
rolling tide beneath ; the young philanthropist rushed
towards him, seized him by the coat —a shrill and
unearthly scream burst from the frustrated suicide,
as he firmly held him back. Three or four passengers
crossed over to the spot from the most frequented side
of the bridge ; the man w 7 as dragged from the parapet
and flung upon the ground.


“He is drunk !” was the observation of the pas-
sengers as they passed on, leaving the young man
alone with the desperate stranger.
“ Why are you so rash ? what is your trouble ?
Tell me, and I will relieve you if I can.”
The man staggered exhausted against the balus-
trades ;he panted for breath. The question was
repeated,
“ You can do me no service,” said the unknown.
“ I wish to die.”
“ Why ?”
“ Sir,” said the stranger, “ I am the manager of a
theatre ; to-morrow is Saturday, and I cannot pay
my salaries and the would-be suicide glanced at
the philanthropist with a strange leer.
“ What sum do you require ?”
“ A hundred pounds.”
“ Is that all?”
“ All !” added the manager with a look of despon-
pondency. “ How can I face my people without that
all ? how many families will go dinnerless on Sunday,
now that I am without that all !”
“Ha!” thought the philanthropist, “how many
families will then bless my name if I supply- him
with the means of paying them !” “ You shall have
the sum that you require,” said the young man :
“ lead me to a place where I can obtain pen and ink,
and I will instantly write you a check.”
“ You will!” replied the manager, rubbing his
hands with glee. “ You have not only saved my life,
but have sustained my character for punctuality in
my payments, without which a manager, from having
it in his power to be the pettiest of all petty tyrants,
suddenly becomes the most insignificant creature on
the face of the earth. Follow me, my kind, my best
friend ; it is a non-play night—the anniversary of
Charles the Martyr ; the actors only suffer for that
event now-a-days —poor devils!” and the manager
again rubbed his hands, and seemed to chuckle at
something that tickled his fancy mightily. He led
the way ; they arrived at the theatre, entered it by a
small door in a backstreet, and were soon seated in a
dark and dingy room, the walls of which were hung
with files of play-bills. An office table with a desk
upon it occupied the centre of the apartment; some
faded damask chairs, with dirty white and gold arms
and legs, completed the rest of the furniture. On the
table were several soiled manuscripts and paper parcels
tied up and directed.
“ These are rejected dramas,” said the manager,
as he perceived his friend eyeing them. “ Every man
to whom I return one of those parcels is henceforth
my enemy for life.” He then threw himself into a
chair, and assumed a look of vast importance. “ There
are pen, ink, and paper,” said he.
“ And there,” added the young man, “is the
check.”
“ Attend in the treasury to-morrow,” said the
manager, “and behold the gratified faces of my
company ; for” said he, in his ear, “ they do not
expect a halfpenny. You will hear what they say.”
“ Shall I ?” exclaimed the philanthropist, and his
face flushed with delight.
The manager now fixed his eyes on his friend, aud
seemed to lead his very soul.
“ I have no doubt,” said he, “ that you have done
many kind actions like this ?”
“ Yes,” replied the young man.
“ And you find everybody grateful ?”
u I think I do.”
“ And in your own circle of course you are be-
loved'?”
“ I believe I am.”
“ And the objects of your charity reverence you?”
“ I believe they do.”
“ But you wish,” said the manager, his eyes twink-
ling with an arch expression ; “ you wish, I dare say,
to hear what is really said of you ?”
“ To confess the truth, it would greatly gratify me.”
“ Well, Sir,” added the manager, “ you have this
night done me a great kindness ; perhaps it is in ray
power to return the favour by giving you your wish.”
“What!” exclaimed the young man; “give me
to hear what is really said of me —is it possible ?”
“ Possible !” said the manager, and he burst into
a laugh, so long and so loud, that the philanthropist
doubted the sanity of the Thespian ruler ; but as he
laughed so merrily, his-countenance underwent a
complete change, the clothes in which he was attired
seemed to become uninhabited, like the dresses in the
opening of a Christmas pantomine before the changes
to the motley group take place:—his head sank into
his coat —his coat into his nether garments —they, in
their turn, fell into his stockings, and, sitting on the
ground before the bewildered young man, appeared
an odd little figure, about three feet in height his
legs most grotesquely bowed, and supporting a very
corpulent body. His head was large, his nose long
and hooked, and a mouth, that alternately expanded
from ear to ear, and instantaneously drew up into a
small oval of the size of an egg ; he held a brown tin
ear-trumpet in his hand, his dress was a tightly-
fitting suit of yellow', spotted with black, and, at the
first glance, he looked like a huge frog ; his face,
however, was red and jolly, and his little black eyes
seemed on fire with delight.
“ Don’t be alarmed.” said he ; “ a theatre is the
legitimate place for transformations, and where could
I undergo mine in a more befitting locality ? lam
the embodied organ of inquisitiveness ; many, many
years ago I was an insignificant lump on the cranium
of the last wife of the great Blue-Beard. At her
death I w r as released from obscurity, and took my
place amongst the myriads of liberated organs of every
human passion that throng the invisible air. These
little eyes of mine, when I wish to pry into any matter
that interests me, I can expand to the size of the crow n
of your hat.” And he immediately gave an evidence
of the truth of his boast, by fixing on the alarmed phi-
lanthropist a pair of immense black orbs, which he as
suddenly reduced to their former twinkling dimensions.
Again he laughed long and loud at the astonishment
of the young man.
“ Behold,” said he, pointing to his tin tube, ‘ when
I apply this instrument to my ear, I can plan: y dis-
tinguish all that is said of me amongst my companions
behind my back.” He placed it to his ear-.—“ That’s
right,” said he, with a grin. “Go on—defame !
detract!—backbite ! —I can hear you—those infernal
organs of destructiveness and philoprogenitiveness are
giving me a fine character. I know that I am far
from a paragon of excellence, but really not such a
wretch as my friends wish to make me out. Ah !
now I see you have an inkling to try my trumpet ;
take it, my friend -.—don’t be alarmed, it won t bite
you.”


He handed his tube to the young man, who instinc-
tively applied it to the proper organ —he immediately
turned pale.
“ What do they say inquired the embodied
organ.
“ Is it possible ?” ejaculated the philanthropist.
“My friend,” said the little gentleman, in the suit
of spotted yellow, “ What is the matter ? ’
“ 1 hear a dozen voices reviling me.”
“ Indeed ! what do they say ?”
“ I relieved a fisherman’s young widow this morn-
ing, and her friends are persuading her that I have a
base motive for my charity.”
“And she believes them, no doubt,” said the ex-
manager.
“ She does *. her reply is, * who’d have thought it?’
and I plainly hear her simper of satisfaction.”
Another peal of laughter from the bow-legged gen-
tleman shook the apartment.
“ Try again,” said he ; “better luck next time.”
The young man’s face once more paled with rage.
“ What now?” inquired the owner of the tube.
“ My gardener, that I took into my service with-
out a character, is talking to his wife. The man was
accused of theft, was starving, and I took pity on
him.”
“ Well, what does he say Gf you ?”
“ His opinion is, that as I seem so rich, and have
taken him without a character, if I don’t work a pri-
vate still, he is almost sure that I am one of the swell
mob, and he shall begin to look about him a
wretch !”
The little gentleman rolled about the floor in
ecstasies *. again the tube Avas at the eager ear of
the young man, Avhose countenance reflected his
vexation.
“ What now ?” inquired the man with the mouth,
in a burlesque tone of commiseration.
“ A party of friends, to whom I gave a splendid
dinner last Aveek, are discussing my charitable dis-
position.”
“ And Avhat do they say ?”
“ They attribute all that I have done to ostentation.
Even my subscription to the Society for the Relief
of the Houseless Poor cannot escape their sneers.—
‘Poor young man!’ says one, ‘ he feels gratified at
reading his name among the list of subscribers.’ ”
“Ah!” responded the owner of the tube, Avith a
profound sigh—“ How bitter it is, sometimes, to listen
to the truth and then he grinned from ear to ear,
his mouth immediately afterwards assuming its oval
form, as he cast a sidelong glance at the mortified
philanthropist. “ Can you hear anything further ?”
said he.
“ Yes.”
“ What ?”
“ The tradesman whom I released from prison is
talking to his daughter—a beautiful girl vrho brought
me a letter of thanks from her father this morning.”
“ Indeed ! You are the subject of their discourse,
no doubt. What may they say ?”
“ The father is asking the girl hoAV I behaved to
her ; she replies, i most kindly, and that she thinks I
pressed her hand at parting, Avhen I presented her
with money.’ ”
“ And the father, what says he V 1
u !—psha !—no such thing.”
“ The father says so ?”
“ No, no, ’tis my reply to his ridiculous asser-
tion.”
“ And what is that V 1
“ He tells his daughter, that if she minds how she
plays her cards, she may be my wife ; and ascribes all
my kindness to him, my releasing him from prison,
my paying his debts, and re-establishing him in busi-
ness, to—to ”
“ What ?”
“ Being smitten with the girl’s charms. He desires
her to be constant in her attendance at church—to
take her little sister only with her, and he has no
doubt that some afternoon I may offer my arm, which
she must timidly take.”
“ Oh, dear—oh, dear?” sighed the owner of the
tube, “ what a world it is !”
The young man’s face now turned red with fury.
“ Anything more V’ asked the embodied organ.- —•
“ W T ho is speaking of you now
“ The man by the river- side, to whom I gave the
care of my wherry, and Jack-in-the-water ; they are
gossiping over a cool tankard at the Adam and Eve—
they are talking of me.”
“ What do they say ?”
“ The devil !” exclaimed the philanthropist, and
he dashed the tube on the ground; it seemed to fly
into a thousand pieces—a loud clap of thunder shook
the building. The young man received a violent
blow, and fell stunned upon the floor. On recover-
ing, the white lines with which the shutters of the
room were ruled told him that it was break of day.
He groped about in fear and astonishment, and, when
recollection of the incidents of the past night returned
to him, he anxiously sought the door of the apart-
ment, and explored his way thence through the dark
wings of the play-house : the night-porter had opened
the stage-door, and was surveying the state of the
weather on the pavement. The philanthropist darted
unobserved into the street, called a hackney-coach,
and in two hours was stretched upon his bed, with an
aching head, and a heart bursting with vexation.
* * * * * *
Forty years and more glided away. The Young
Philanthropist of the elegant villa on the banks of the
Thames, and the Old Brute of the lonely street near
the Abbey, were one and the same person, changed
only by years and a matured knowledge of the
world.
Review.
History of the Hawaiian, or Sandwich Islands, embracing their
Antiquities, Mythology, Legends, Discovery by Europeans in
the sixteenth century, Re-discovery by Cook, with their Civil,
Religious, and Political History, from the earliest traditionary
period to the present time: by James Jackson Jarves,
Member of the American Oriental Society. London: 1813.
ALSO,
The Sandwich Islands: Progress of Events since their Dis-
covery by Captain Cook; their Occupation by Lord George
Paulet ; their Value and Importance: by Alexander
Simpson, Esq., late acting there as Her Majesty's Consul.
London : 1843. With tivo excellent Maps.
We have here presented to our notice two works lately pub-
lished on the History, complete and partial, of the group of
Islands commonly called the Sandwich Islands. The former
is a very complete statistical and political account of the
Islands by an American visiter, collected during a four years’
residence there. The latter professes to be, as its title inti-
mates, but a summary of the “ Progress of Events,” reaching,


however, to the later period of March, 1843, by an Englishman
connected officially with the Islands.
It is generally supposed that Captain Cook was the first
discoverer of this group; but says Mr. Jarves —“Not a rea-
sonable doubt can exist that the Hawaiian Islands were
visited by Europeans two centuries or more before the Era of
Cook. The knowledge of such events has been perpetuated
in numerous traditions, which coincide with much collateral
evidence. The precise time of these visits it is now impossible
to ascertain, though from the reigns (of Native Princes) to
which they are referred, and the few particulars which have
been preserved relative to them, they must have been long
anterior to that of the English navigator. If their original
discoverers were the Spaniards, as is most probable, they were
acquainted with their position, as it appears from an old
Spanish chart of that period, previous to the seventeenth
century... .... Enough has been preserved (from the ancient
traditions of the Hawaiians) to establish the fact that, cen-
turies since, vessels visited these Islands, and that seveial
parties landed on them, and left progeny, whose descendants
are distinguished, even to this day, by their lighter skin, and
brown or red curly hair, called ehu, and who highly esteem
their origin To whatever extent, however, these
Islands may have been known to the Spanish navigators,
or stragglers across the vast Pacific, from the earlier part of
the sixteenth to the middle of the seventeenth century, who
from ignorance or design, left the world unacquainted with
their importance, it does not greatly detract from the credit
due to the energy and ability displayed by their English suc-
cessor, Captain Cook. He was probably unaware of their true
position; and if to Columbus thp discovery of America is to
attributed, equally to Cook is that of the Hawaiian group:
both were simply re-discoveries.”
In Mr. Jarves’ history we have an exceedingly interesting
and extended account of the position, climate, population,
customs, manners, language, arts, and religion of these Islands;
the arrival and reception of Captain Cook, the conquests and
government of Kamehameha, “the Napoleon of the Pacific,”
together with the general progress of events up to the arrival
of the American missionaries in 1820. After that period, his
account takes a more political bias, and his descriptive talent
is naturally enough engaged in the defence of his countrymen,
the American missionaries.
The political disturbances which have taken place in these
Islands during the last few years are here commented upon
according to the different views entertained by each writer.
The alterations attempted and demands made upon the native
government at various periods by the French, the Americans,
and the English; the arrival of the American missionaries,
and the intrusion of the Propagandists are, in these works,
fully dilated upon ; and the contrary assertions made, will
serve, at least, to enable the reader of both works to form a
true conclusion as to the real state of affairs.
The American missionaries seem to have underwent much
opposition, both just and unjust, from all parties. They are
accused of unwarrantably influencing the native government
—in fact, of taking the power of legislation entirely into their
own hands, and of enacting oppressive and absurd regulations.
“ Eighty thousand square miles of land,” says Mr. Simpson,
“ possessing unequalled advantages of soil, climate, and situ-
ation, the legitimate property of the British nation, (are) in the
possession of a black dignitary and two unscrupulous Ameri-
cans.” And speaking of the effect of the code of laws, he
says, “ The taxation borne by the people of the most civilized
nation in Europe is not equal to this.”
On the other hand Mr. Jarves indulges “in the most savage
attacks upon the conduct of the English Consul in opposing
the policy and measures of the missionary rulers,” while he
denies all assertions as to the undue influence exerted by the
missionaries over the native government.
Each of our writers sets forth in glowing terms the peculiar
value of this group to their respective nations. Mp. Simpson
urges the British Government to take possession of the group
gs by just right so entitled to do: whereas Mr. Jarves, secure
in the ascendancy already possessed by American missionaries,
American traders, and the superior number of American
whalers and other vessels, who visit there, demands its inde-
pendent establishment as a neutral government. He says,
*' If the ports of this group were closed to neutral commerce,
many thousand miles of ocean would have to be traversed
before havens possessii g the requisite conveniences for re-
cruiting or repairing shipping could be reached. This fact
illustrates their great importance in a naval point. Should
any one ol the great nations seize upon them, it might be con-
siclered as holding the key of the North Pacific—for no trade
could prosper in their vicinity, or even exist, against the
powerful marine of a hostile power.” “The Oregon Terri-
tory offers no ports which could compensate for the loss of the
Hawaiian. California in the possession of a hostile power,
the islands of the Pacific divided as prizes among rival com-
mercial nations whose influence over its whole extent of sea
and coast would be decidedly inimical to American enterprise,
and the consequences would be disastrous. The United States
would present the singular anomaly of possessing a long line
of coast bordering upon that ocean, yet without the means of
rendering it available to her commerce. The sails of her
rivals or enemies would dot its expanse in tiiumpli; ports and
naval depositories under their lee, and markets at their con-
trol • while the commerce of America must make the circuit
of Cape Horn, exposed to the vicissitudes of long voyages,
and the wavering policy of doubtful friends, or encounter the
risks of the mouth of the Columbia, one of whose banks is yet
a disputed possession.” And again “ The loss of the group
to the British empire has been the gain of the remainder of
the world; inasmuch as the colonial policy of Great Britain
would have rendered tlieir ports of small advantage to foreign
commerce.”
On this point Mr. Simpson remarks—“ They (America)
undoubtedly desire the entire concurrence of other powers
(Great Britain and France) in the recognition of the inde-
pendence of this group* Why do they so ? Do they enter-
tain any sympathy for the native princes? tNo. They desire
this recognition; first, because they know that England, by
right of discovery, and of repeated cession, has, according to
the custom of nations, an exclusive claim to this group;
second, because they have well considered and duly appre-
ciate its importance as a naval station and as a colonial pos-
session ; and third, because its independence under the native
princes is, in reality, its government by American citizens.
We shall not attempt to discuss the merits of the various
questions in debate, nor will our space permit us to speak ot
many other subjects of great interest. M e conclude with a
description of the natural scenery of the group.
Mr. Jarves staes, “The formation of the whole group is
volcanic. On Hawaii exists the largest known volcano, in an
active state, in the world, and several others of great size,
partially quiescent. The mountains attain an elevation ot
14,000 feet, and are of great extent and grandeur, and here,
as well as elsewhere, throughout the group, present a com-
bination of valley, plain, and dell, of the wildest description,
interspersed with scenery of the most peculiar and beautiful
character. In places, they slope gradually to the sea, covered
with a fine greensward at their base, while the upper region
supports dense forests. Plains are broken by deep ravines,
down the steep sides of which cascades tumble in bright
sheets, glistening in the sunlight, and, uniting at their feet,
form rivers of considerable depth and size. ‘Palis,’ or pre-
cipices, in many parts, present stupendous walls ot rock, from
1000 to 4000 feet perpendicular elevation, which directly
front the ocean, and receive the dash of its waves ; these, in
time, wear away the rock, and form large caverns at their
base, into which the sea rushes, its roar reverberating through
their vast walls, with a deafening noise.”
“ Mr. Simpson remarks, “The scenery varies from the soft
beauty of the vallies, where the cocoa palm, the citron, the
orange, and the banana, grow luxuriantly, to the wild deso-
lation of the mountains of Owhyhee, whose volcanic summits
are 17,000 feet in height—compared with which Etna and
Vesuvius are but as ‘farthing rushlights.’ A wide range in
which are included, in a small space, greater varieties of
scene, of climate, and productions, than are to be found in
the whole continent of Europe.
‘ Fair clime ! where every season smiles
Benignant o’er these blessed isles ; »
There mildly dimpling, ocean’s cheek
Reflects the tint of many a peak,
Caught by the laughing tides that lave,
These Edens of the western wave.’ ”
Varieties.
A Hint to Wives. —When a woman seeks to guide her
husband, it should not be like one who breaks a horse to his
own purpose, using bit and spur, now checking, and now
goading his career—but, like the mariner who steers the ship,
directs it by a single touch, while none can see the power that
rules its motion. Mrs. S. C. Hall,


National Benefactors. —The names of those who have
enriched our gardens with useful and valuable plants are de-
serving of record and remembrance, tffr W. Raleigh intro-
duced the potato; Sir Anthony Ashley first planted cabbages
in this country —a cabbage appears at his feet on his monu-
ment ; Sir Richard Weston brought over clover-grass from
Flanders in 1645; figs were planted in Henry VIII.’s reign,
at Lambeth by Cardinal Pope, it is said that the identical trees
are still l’emaining. Spilman, who erected the first paper-mill
at Darlford, in 1590, brought over the first two lime trees,
which he planted, and they are still growing. Thomas Lord
Cromwell enriched the gardens of England with three
different kinds of plums. It was Evelin, whose patriotism was
not exceeded by his learning, who largely propagated the noble
oak in this country, so much so, that the trees he planted have
supplied the navy of Great Britain with its chief proportion of
that timber.
Appropriation of Time.’ —•“ My dear Tom,” said an
exquisite to a brother idler, “ how do you spend the twenty-
four hours ?” ■‘ In charity,” replied his friend. “In charity ?”
“ Yes ; first I give twelve hours to sleep, and of the remaining
twelve I give two to dress, four to eating and drinking, four
to the play or opera, and two to smoking and building.”
“ Building?” “ Yes—castles in the air; and Ido assure you
’tis a most agreeable pastime. And now what do you think
of my disposition ?” “ Equitable as ’tis amiable, Tom,” re-
plied his friend, “ and I must take a leaf out of your day-
book.” “;V,y waste-book call it,” said Tom, “in which the
initials L.S.D. may be appropriately construed—lounging,
smoking, and drinking; and the sum total the luxury of
indolence.”
“ My heart is thine,” as the cabbage said to the cook-maid.
A Good Leap. —During a trial in some fields near the
terminus of the Great Western Railway, the steeple-chase
horse Pilot cleared a space of 30 feet 10 inches, in a leap over
a brook, with a high hank and rail on one side of it, carrying
a groom of 12 stone, besides the saddle, &c.
James Price was an English chymist, who in the course of
experiments exhibited in the presence of several men of
science and reputation, produced a wonderful powder, which,
if it did- not actually turn all it touched to gold, like the
fabulous philosophers’ stone, made very near approaches to
that miraculous transmutation. Half a grain of this wonder-
working ingredient, which was of a deep red colour, and
weighed by an indifferent person, prevented quicksilver from
evaporating or boiling, though the crucible that contained it
was surrounded by an intense fire, and was itself become red
hot. I will not puzzle my readers, nor incur the risk of
exposing myself, by describing in technical terms every part
of the process. It is sufficient to observe, that Dr. Price
directed, but touched nothing, and that at the conclusion
of the operation, when the crucible was cooled, and broken,
a globule, weighing ten grains, of a yellow metal, was found
at the bottom, which a skilful artist, after trying it by the
common tests, pronounced to be pure gold, for which he
would give the highest price that was generally asked for that
metal. A variety of experiments which it is not necessary
to particularise in this place, and of which the principal
nobility and gentlemen in the neighbourhood of Guildford,
the doctor’s residence, were witnesses, established beyond a
doubt the fact, that by means of his extraordinary powders,
for he produced a white as well as a red one, silver and gold,
in the proportion of 28 to 1, and in other instances of 40 to 1,
and 60 to 1, was repeatedly produced. Notwithstanding such
unexceptionable evidence, the world still incredulous and
suspecting deception, demanded further experiments; but the
sanguine expectations of the friends of Dr. Price were checked
by the reply he made —“ The whole of my materials have
been expended in the experiments 1 made, and I cannot
furnish myself with more but by a process tedious and operose,
whose effects 1 find have already been injurious to my health,
and of which 1 decline the repetition.” Whether the operator
had impaired bis fortune, his intellects, or his spirits, I cannot
tell; but 1 understand that he not long after died by his own
hands, and his secret, to the experimental chymist, so highly
interesting, perished with him. The philosopher and states-
man who may lament the loss of an art, which would appa-
rently have enabled us to pay off the national debt, and to set
at defiance the exhausting circumstances of war, will, how-
ever, cease to repine, and estimate the doctor’s secret at its
proper value, when they are told, as he confessed to a friend,
a few months before his death, that the materials necessary
to produce an ounce of gold cost seventeen pounds. — Lounger's
Common Place Booh,
Mental Causes of Apoplexy. —Such is the power of the
mind; there is scarcely a passion which has not, by excess of
action, terminated existence. Love has done it; anger has
done it; grief has done it; and also joy. But there is one
mental emotion which, in our experience, never struck the
human body with a fatal blow ; it is hope. Hope, when well
grounded, never creates evil; it is a true anchor. The other
passions may agitate the soul, as the angel did Bethesda’s
waters ; but hope rather resembles the healing influence that
angel left behind.
Acquaintanceship. —There are some men with whom on
the instant we seem to get acquainted. An hour’s accidental
association in a stage coach, a steam packet, or a hotel, does
more towards banishing reserve and restraint than many
months daily communication with beings less congenial They
seem to suit us—we part from them with regret; and long
afterwards, when their names are forgotten, we remember a
pleasant fellow, and a happy hour. It is not then that friend-
ship can be made; but we may learn from this the advantage
of unpretending good humour and frank benevolence.
A Congenial Couple. —Mrs. Amber was an exact repre-
sentation of that nicely-balanced sentence, her husband, in
smaller print. She was formed of the clay that remained after
he was made. Had their heads been made of wood hers
would have been a chip of the same block that supplied his;
and if their hearts had been of stone, hers must have been dug
out of the identical quarry in which his had hardened; more-
over, if the husband’s had chanced to harden round a toad that
lived comfortably imbedded in it, the wife’s would infallibly
have had its little imitative squeakish frog squatting in the
centre. It is said of numerous hypocritical couple who take
care never to quarrel in company, that they were “ formed for
each other;” and a secret sympathy between the pair in
question had such a mysterious influence that their persons
grew alike, and they seemed by destiny fitted for the relation-
ship in which they stood. If the one had an accession of fat
so had the other: if the husband fell away, so did the wife.
Their four eyes, if shaken in a bag, must necssarily have come
out pairs ; their voices were the same, the difference being
merely in compass; what A. said, Mrs. A seconded, true as the
echo; their thoughts were alike all day long, and their dreams
were generally found to match when compared over the
breakfast table.— New Monthly.
Habits of Spiders. —The following curious fact is given
on the authority of Mr. Spence : —Having placed a large full-
grown spider on a cane planted upright in the midst of a
stream of water, he saw it descend the cane several times, and
remount when it had arrived at the surface of the water.
Suddenly he altogether lost sight of it, but a few moments
afterwards, to bis great astonishment, perceived it quietly
pursuing its way on the other side of the stream. The spider
having spun two threads along the cane, had cut one of them,
which, carried by the wind, had became attached to some
object on the bank, and so served the spider as a bridge across
the water. It is supposed that, spiders, when adult, always
use similar means to cross water.
A RECEIPT.
How to Prepare Salt Fish. —We often see a piece of
ling, cod, or hake, nearly as hard as a board, and as salt as the
very brine itself, from having been carelessly thrown for a few
hours in water scarcely perhaps sufficient to cover it; from
whence it is committed to the pot and boiled away at a gallop,
until the cook believes it sufficiently done to be brought to
table. When so treated the best salt fish would be unfit to be
eaten. To prepare a ling for the table, it should lay for twelve
hours at least in water more than sufficient to cover it entirely;
and being then taken out and well scrubbed with a hard brush
or coarse cloth, it should be placed either on a stone or a flat
board, to drain for six or eight hours ; after which, it should
again be put into water, which, if you can keep about lukewarm
is all the better; and let it remain ten or twelve hours more,
when it will swell considerably, and become pliant and tender.
Warm milk and water is considered to soften and improve both
the flavour and appearance. Some add vinegar to the water
as a means of extracting the salt. Two soakings are however
at any rate necessary to get rid of the salt or rancid taste ; one
soaking for however long a period, only makes a kind of pickle,
the water becoming almost as salt as the very brine, being in
itself sufficient to impart a saltness to any fish that may be
cast into it. Dried cod requires about half the soaking each
time as a salt ling.— Fish, how to choose and how to dress, by
Piscalor,


The Moralist.
FORTITUDE.
Perils, and misfortunes, and want, and pain, and injury, are
more or less the certain lot of every man that cometh into the
world.
It behoveth thee, therefore, O child of calamity ! early to
fortify thy mind with courage and patience, that thou mayest
support, with a becoming resolution, thy allotted portion of
human evil.
As the camel beareth labour, and heat, and hunger, and
thirst, through deserts of sand, and fainteth not; so the for-
titude of man shall sustain him through all perils.
A man of a noble spirit disdaineth the malice of fortune ;
greatness of soul is not to be cast down.
He hath not suffered his happiness to depend upon her
smiles, and therefore with her frowns he shall not be dismayed.
As a rock on the sea-shore he standeth firm, and the dash-
ing of the waves disturbeth him not.
He raiseth his head like a tower on a hill, and the arrows of
fortune drop at his feet.
In the instant of danger the courage of his heart sustaineth
him ; and the. steadiness of his mind beareth him out.
He meoteth the evils of life as a man that goeth forth into
battle, and returneth with victory in his hand.
Under the pressure of misfortunes, his calmness alleviates
their weight, and his constancy shall surmount them.
But the dastardly spirit of a timorous man betrayeth him to
shame,
As a reed is shaken with a breath of air, so the shadow ot
evil maketh him tremble.
In the hour of danger he is embarrased and confounded ;
in the day of misfortune he sinketh, and despair overwhelmeth
his soul.
MORAL MAXIMS.
ALPHABETICALLY ARRANGED.
No. 6.
After-wit is any body’s wit.
A full purse never lacks friends.
Against fortune, oppose courage : against passion, reason.
A gentle disposition is like an unruffled stream.
A gift, long waited for, is sold, not given.
A good cause makes a stout heart and a strong arm.
A good conscience is the best law.
A good layer-up is a good layer-out.
A good life keeps off wrinkles.
A GOOD MAXIM IS NEVER OUT OF SEASON.
A good pay-master has the strings of another man’s purse.
A good servant makes a good master.
We often speak of being settled in life; we mighc as well
think of casting anchor in the midst of the Atlantic Ocean, or
talk of the permanent situation of a stone that is rolling down
The whole world is put in motion, either by the thirst after
fame, the aspirings of ambition, the desire for riches, or the
dread of poverty.
The first ingredient in conversation is truth, the next good
sense, the third good humour, and the fourth wit.
The heart of man has often wept blood because the eye of
childhood has bean spared a tear.
11l tamper puts as many briefs into the lawyer’s bag as
injustice. .
Accursed the prejudice of superiority, the domineering
principle which clashes woman man’s inferior ! Born
on the same le-’el, actuated bv the same feelings, governed by
t Ti e same r alive to the same intellect, resting on the
same hope, the nominal superiority owes its birth to the dreams
of arrogance or ihe puff of fools! No ! Woman is man’s
prme good, or his bitterest curse: sK is a matchless jewel
j r p; . c onour, m i wavs are darkness and death,
obe sea: .. peace in his path, or she mars the sunshine of
,] e She extracts the festering thorn from his
pdiow of woe’ o she hurls him soul and destruction !
the best way to judge of things.
Not by the opinions of others :
Not by the praise of great names,
Nor by the censure of wise heads ;
But, by the Scripture of Truth;
And by their practical effects !— Niblock's Texluary.
Select Poetry.
PROVIDENCE.
[FROM THE ITALIAN OF FILICAJA.]
As when a mother turns her loving eye
Upon her children—while her heart o’erflows ;
And kisses these, and to her bosom those
Presses—or dandles them in ecstacy :
While in their every act, or look, or cry,
She reads their various wishes, or their woes ;
On some a look, on some a smile bestows —
On some a frown —yet all —her love imply.
Such, such to us is God, all-great, all-wise,
Who watches, comforts, and provides for all —
Listens to all—the wants of all supplies :
If He refuse— it is that we may call
On Him for what He seemingly denies :
From His denials blessings oft befall.
DISSENSION.
Alas ! how light a thing may move
Dissension between hearts that love —
Hearts that the world in vain has tried, '
And sorrow but more closely tied,
That stood the storm when waves were rough,
Yet in a sunny hour fall off
Like ships that have gone down at sea,
When Heaven was all tranquillity.
A something light as air—a look,
A word unkind, or wrongly taken,
Oh ! love, that tempest never shook,
A breath like this, the hold hath shaken.
And ruder words will soon rush in
To spread the breach that words began,
And eyes forget the gentle ray
They wore on courtship’s happy day,
And voices lose the tone that shed
A tenderness round all they said ;
’Till, fast declining, one by one,
The sweetnesses of love are gone ;
And hearts, so lately mingled, seem
Like broken clouds; or like the stream
That smiling left the mountain’s brow,
As tho’ its waters ne’er could sever,
Yet, e’er it reach the plains below,
Breaks into floods, that part for ever;
Memoriter.
SOLITUDE.
It is not that my lot is low
That bids the silent tear to flow ;
It is not want that makes me moan;
It is that I am all alone.
In woods atul glens I love to roam
When the tired hedger hies him home ;
Or by the woodland pool to rest
When the pale star looks on its breast.
Yet when the silent evening sighs
With hallowed air and symphonies,
My spirit takes another tone,
And sighs that it is all alone.
The Autumn’s leaf is sere and dead,
It floats upon the water’s bed ;
I would not be a leaf, to die .
Without recording sorrow’s sigh.
The winds and waves, with sullen wail,
Tell all the same unvaried tale ;
I’ve none to smile when I am tree,
And when I weep, to weep with me!
Yet, in my dreams a form I view
That thinks on me, and loves me too ;
I start —and when the vision’s ftown,
I weep that I am all alone !
H. K. WHITE.


Notice to ©orresponbents.
All communications must be addressed to “ The Editor of the
Colonial Literary Journal, General Printing Office, 133,
King-street East,” (post, paid.)
The Editor does not hold himself responsible for the opinions
and assertions contained in the Correspondence and Contri-
butions inserted in the Colonial Literary Journal.
The Article on Mathematics in our next; together with Poetry.
Notice to ©otmtn) Subscribers.
Subscribers in the Country are requested to forward their names
and subscriptions to the nearest Agents, where no Agent has,
as yet, been appointed in their immediate neighbourhood; as
the expense of postage of a letter to the Publishers in Sydney,
is a considerable encroachment upon the very slender amount
of a Quarterly Subscription.
Subscribers are informed that as back JVos. cannot go through
the Post, they must inform us by what means the earlier Nos.
are to be forwarded to them without expense to the Publishers.
In answer to complaints of non-delivery of Papers, we can only
say that the Nos. have been regularly inserted in the Post
Office to their respective directions.
WEEKLY MISCELLANY.
THE LITERARY INSTITUTIONS OF THE
COLONY.
It may, and, perhaps, with some justice, be expected
of us, that we should not omit all mention of the
Australian Subscription Library. It has been a
matter of some speculation and of more acrimony
amongst those who are and are not initiated into the
mysteries of this Institution, whether in reality it be
public or hybrid. Not being connected ourselves with
the Society, we are somewhat ignorant of its particu-
lar position with regard to the public ; and we deem
it safest, therefore, to leave its members to dispose of
the question as they best may. From the little
knowledge, however, we have been able to acquire
touching its constitution, we may be permitted to
•observe in passing, that w r e imagine there w r ill be
little difficulty in shewing that it is in one respect
similarly constituted to those of our institutions which
avow themselves established for the sole use and
behoof of the public. And we only stop to state one
reason why we are thus inclined to view it as one of
the public literary institutions of the colony ; and it
is this, That it has lately been declared, in terms
which cannot be misunderstood, that the Government
of the colony merely holds its lands in trust for the
people at large, and therefore it is evident that the
supposition of the Australian Subscription Library
being a private Institution, never for one moment
crossed its august imagination. Had it done so, these
giants of land could not in fairness have been be-
stowed. Now we conceive that the acceptance of these
giants is a tacit avowal of the recognition of the fact
on the part of the Directors of the Institution, and
that, consequently, the question is settled beyond all
manner of dispute.
The Library in connexion with this Society is
aige, extensive, and valuable, perhaps more so than
any other in the colony. This of itself is so strong
a recommendation, that we are not surprised at its
hitherto flourishing condition. Albeit, its sphere of ,
usefulness is perhaps too much confined to one nrade
o society and that too, a grade which can derive the
least benefit from its advantages. It is a natural con-
comitant, however, of every literary society, that it
should have a sphere of its own ; or that it should
take its hue from that class with whom it originated,
and from whom it derives its warmest support.
There are several leading features that ought to
distinguish all public literary institutions, and these
vve may be pardoned for mentioning ; premising our
remarks, however, with a distinct disavowal of any
intention to apply them to the deficiencies of any one
of our Colonial Societies. We look upon our literary
institutions with a jealous eye ; they are the safest
guardians of religion, morals, and virtue, as well as
the means of extending instruction in the various de-
partments of the arts and sciences to those whose birth
and limited education have deprived them of the solid
advantages to be derived from their study. It is
chiefly by the means of these institutions, or of others
similarly constituted, that we may hope to arrive at
aught resembling celebrity in the arts ; and the first
evil to be guarded against, in order to achieve so
desired a consummation, is that of fostering a spirit
of exclusiveness. Every possible facility should be
afforded to every class in the community —be that
ever so humble—in order to their becoming possessed
of the undoubted benefits which literary societies are
calculated to confer. And we would remark, that if
there be one class more than another requiring our
every consideration and sympathy, it is that which
has hitherto been deprived of education. An aris-
tocratic literary institution is an anomaly. The
tender Euripides has stated with much truth and
beauty, that
“ Nature hath giv’n no outward mark to note
The generous mind : the qualities of men
To sense are indistinct.”
Past experience teaches us many and many a lesson
in this respect; and it behoves us in this colony to
profit by its revelations.
We are anxious also to perceive a greater amount of
zeal exhibited by those into whose hands the direction
of our literary societies has been placed. The forma-
tion of classes, &c., from which so many and great
advantages have resulted in the mother-country, has
been much neglected. Sluggishness and a spirit of
exclusiveness are both uncongenial with sound policy;
and we sincerely trust that, if they do exist, they will
soon pass away like a cloud that is carried onward
upon the wings of the tempest.
Of the Church of England Book Society, we hear
little, and know less. The circle of its influence is
somewhat limited; although we have no doubt that,
within its own sphere, it must be productive of many
beneficial results. We heartily wish it a more ex-
tended field on which to exercise its legitimate power.
We have thus taken a very hasty glance at the
constitution and objects of our literary institutions.
We elsewhere stated that the Colony had reason to be
proud of the advantages accruing from her societies,
as well as of the support extended to them ; and we
cannot refrain from reiterating the sentiment here.
It has been our object by hastily reviewing their
privileges, to induce those who are not connected
with them to become so without delay. The influence
they exercise must be beneficial to all classes of the
community ; and it is, therefore, the duty of all
classes to support them. They are surrounded by a
genial atmosphere admirably adapted to counteract
many of the greatest evils under which we languish ;
and it affords us no mean amount of pleasure, there-
fore, to prognosticate, as we do, a growing popularity
and an extended influence for all the literary insti


tutions of the colony. It is only by these means we
can ever realise the glowing picture of future great-
ness, which the pen of Campbell has assigned to us.
We can scarcely refrain from inserting the passage,
not only because it is in itself beautiful, but, also,
because we are fain to hope that it will soon be pos-
sessed of a property for which poetry is not over-
famous, viz :—truth.
“ Delightful land, in wildness een benign,
The glorious past is ours, the future thine !
As in a cradled Hercules, we trace
The lines of empire on thine infant face.
What nations in the wide horizon’s span,
Shall teem on tracts untrodden yet by man !
What spacious cities with their spires shall gleam,
Where now the Emu laps a lonely stream,
And all but brute or reptile life is dumb!
Land of the free ! thy kingdom is to come,
Of States with laws from Gothic bondage burst,
And Creeds by charter’d priesthoods unaccurst;
Of Navies, hoisting their emblazon’d flags,
Where shipless seas now wash unbeacon’d crags;
Of hosts review’d in dazzling files and squares,
Their pennon’d trumpets breathing native airs,—
For minstrels thou shalt have of native fire,
And maids to sing the songs themselves inspire:
And whilst the light and luxury of the skies
Give brighter smiles to beauteous woman’s eyes,
The Arts, whose soul is love,, shall all spontaneous rise.”
THE PROSPECTS AND RESOURCES OF THE
COLONY.
CONTINUATION OF THE VARIED FORMS OF WATER.
The formation of Dew is another lively process of
nature, from whence poets derive their sweetest em-
blems, and Scripture its sublimest similies. Dew is
the soft limped fluid which we see on a fine morning
lying in drops on the grass and vegetation. It is
formed in the night, when the earth radiates hack to
the atmosphere the heat which it had absorbed during
the day. The heat thus given from the earth, will,
on a cloudless night, ascend very high, and the surface
of the earth becomes cold. At such times the vapours
of the air near the earth will condense and form
water, which water falls upon the vegetation, where
it is deposited in very small drops. We do not find
the dew-drops equally dispensed in all places, because
some parts of the earth, and some vegetable substances,
are better radiators than others, that is, they part
with more heat; for instance, mown grass is an ex-
cellent radiator, it is therefore colder, and we see on
it a greater abundance of dew. If we put a thermo-
meter on the grass, and another on the gravel, we
shall find the mercury sink several degrees lower on
the grass than on the gravel. When clouds hover
over the earth they will correct the ascent of the heat,
they will absorb it and reflect it back again ; but,
when there are no clouds, the heat from the earth
passes freely upwards, the earth is colder, and there-
fore more dew is deposited. Thus we see that on
cloudy nights the earth is warmer than on clear
nights, and that, not from any general change in the
atmosphere, but because the clouds give back to the
earth the heat which they receive from it. An expe-
rienced gardener will act upon this principle, though
he knows not the theory of his practice, by placing at
night a matting or cover supported by sticks over
tender plants, which protects them from the abstrac-
tion of heat. This important theory of the formation
of dew, was not accurately known until lately. It
was first noticed and proved by Dr. Wells. Hoar
Frost, which is frozen dew, is also a beautiful object
in nature. The globules of dew are sometimes frozen
at so small a point as to rest on the spiders’ webs,
when they look like strings of beads in the form of
net-work ; the grass of the meadows will have the
appearance of being covered with a white sheet; the
branches of the trees and plants are also whitened,
and even the hair and beards of night travellers are
thus decorated. Fog is another form of vapour which
appears in a mass, and is so partially condensed as not
to amount to a precipitation or fall of rain. Mist is
a vapour which becomes condensed as soon as it rises
out of the earthy Fog is condensed after it has
attained a greater altitude. Fogs and mists are
generally dispersed without forming into clouds.
Steam is another form of vapour, and is an invisible
and elastic fluid like common air. It becomes visible
to us the moment it escapes the boiler, being instantly
condensed by the change of temperature. Steam for
mechanical purposes is produced by heating water to
the boiling point, which 212 degrees Fahrenheit. The
Avater is put into an iron or copper vessel over an
ardent fire, Avhere the lower part becomes first heated,
expands and ascends to the upper part of the vessel,
while the colder parts descend to become heated in
their turn. In this manner the Avater is converted
into steam. The rapidity with which steam issues
out of the boiler, is caused by the great expansion
and pressure of the vapour, particles of Avhich fly off
with so great a velocity as to impel forward and over-
come all obstacles to their progress —if there Aveie
not apertures or valves for its escape, the vessel Avould
inevitably burst. The expansion of steam is so great,
that any given quantity of Avater will produce suffi-
cient steam to occupy many hundred times more
space than its original volume. This is a Avonderful
illustration of the minuteness to Avhich the particles
of matter mav be reduced.
The name of Mineral Waters is given to those
portions that have in their course passed through the
strata which contain more soluble particles than
others. Waters greatly impregnated with iron, are
called Chalybeate Waters. The purest water is found
in rain and snow, and of these melted snow is the
purest. River water contains a mixture of many
ingredients, for while meandering on the surface of
the earth, or filtering through it, many particles are
taken up of various kinds so extremely small as to
be suspended in the water unseen by us ; these parti-
cles consist of different salts of alkalies, earths or
metals, Avith certain gases. All water attracts air
which will adhere to it with great firmness. I his is
seen when water is poured from one vessel into
another, as the air which is carried down with the
falling water escapes in bubbles. The foam of water-
falls is owing to the escape of air from the water.
Air may be entirely separated from water by boiling
it for two hours, but it Avill soon attract it again “
not closed.—Sea water is always salt; indeed we
might look upon the ocean as an immense body ot
solution of salt, but it contains many other ingredi-
ents besides the common salt, such as lime and
magnesian salt; several acids, and if taken up near
the surface, it is found to contain the putrid remains
of animal substances, the smell of which, it is said,
mariners often f.nl extremely nauseous in a long
continued cairn. The magnesian salt callM Chonde


of Magnesium is found in the water after the extrac-
tion of the common salt. It is sometimes called
Bittern. —It is said that the Southern Ocean contains
much more salt than the Northern ; why then do not
the inhabitants of this colony extract the salt from
the sea, and make it an article of home consumption
at least, if not for exportation. It is an easy process
—it does not require a large capital—the ocean is
free to all ; a very small portion of beach land wo.uld
be necessary for appropriation, and yet the common
salt in use here is chiefly brought from England.
—The salt is easily separated from the water by
evaporation, and this can be done by two different
processes. In the first, the sea water is exposed in
large shallow vessels or ponds, to the heat of the sun,
when the salt is gradually deposited ; this is called
spontaneous evaporation. Another method is to boil
the sea water in an open iron vessel, when the salt
rises to the surface, and is continually removed by an
instrument resembling a colander ; this goes on until
all the saline matter is either evaporated or deposited,
and the residual liquor, called Bittern , is valued as
the source from w r hich one of the elements named
Bromine is obtained. The sea in general contains
more salt where it is deepest and furthest from land ;
it is resupplied with the water that it parts with in
vapour, inasmuch as “ all rivers flow into the sea,”
and bear with them, in the liquid state, the vapours
which arose from it. In this is manifested that
beautiful perfection of order which enables every
thing around us to Be, to perform its office, to finish
its course, to return from whence it came, and to do
again the same work for ever and ever, while this
world shall endure. “ The Lord by wisdom esta-
blished the heavens ; by his knowledge the depths
are broken up, and the clouds drop down the rain.
For he maketh small the drop of dew, the clouds do
drop and distil upon man abundantly.”
The chemical term for common salt is Chloride of
Sodium , which shall be explained hereafter.
PHRENOLOGY.
[For the Colonial Literary Journal.]
No. 111.
The skull of the ancient inhabitants of Egypt has
been discovered among the mummies, and its confi-
guration bears out the principles of Phrenology in a
very remarkable manner, One of the most striking
cases is that of tw T o skulls which have been lately
discovered in one of the tombs of the royal family of
Egypt, and regarded with every probability as the
skulls of the celebrated Egyptian monarch Sesostris
and his queen. Their absolute size is very large,
fully as much so indeed as that of the largest European
order, but differs in the relative proportion of the
Moral Sentiments, Propensities, and Intellectual Fa-
culties ; they are rather deficient in the first, and
have the second more largely developed—presenting
on the whole, a configuration of brain indicating the
possession of very great strength, and likely to have
exerted a corresponding influence over the minds of
men. To explain the latter part of the preceding
sentence, it is, perhaps, necessary to state, that one
of the principles of Phrenology is, that the larger the
absolute size of the brain, the more weight and in-
fluence will the individual possessing such, have in
society. In a future article we shall dwell on this
point more fully.
The cerebral developement of the Romans was in
perfect unison with their character, indicating a bold
ambitious and enterprising race ; and such likenesses
of their illustrious characters as have come down to
us, furnish the strongest proof in favour of the science.
Even in the midst of that gluttony and
licentiousness and obscenity, and indeed of every
description of debauchery and vice, which so disgraced
the annals of the latter period of the Roman Empire,
we can distinguish occasional gleams of that patriotic
and virtuous character, so eminently the attribute of
the early Romans, untainted by the evils of that
enervating luxury which ruined the noblest of nations ;
we can distinguish gleams of that stern and rigid virtue
so remarkable in the patriotic and devoted heroism of
Regulus, or in the disinterestedness of the youthful
hero Scipio—of that love of freedom and hatred of
tyrants which characterised the family of Brutus—in
fine, of that virtue and true nobleness of mind, which
has in a thousand instances rendered the name of
Roman so illustrious. But the stamina of the Roman
character, at that time was gone —their manners and
their dispositions had entirely changed ; they prided
themselves not as formerly on their virtue and valour,
but on account of their wealth, and their gradation in
the vices. And it is not carrying the matter too far,
to assert that their developement of brain corresponded
with their change of character. To be consistent with
ourselves, we must consider so, and in this instance,
we are remarkably supported by actual facts. While
we find that the early eminent men of Rome were
characterized by highly favourable developements, we
find on the contrary, that those of the Roman Em-
perors, infamous for their vices, (which indeed included
the greater number,) were stamped with the stigma-
tizing brand of nature. Those who have seen like-
nesses of Nero, Vitellius, Caracalla, &c., these demons
in human shape, will bear us out in our assertion.
Let us now glance at the distinguishing charac-
teristics of the Nations of modern times, a branch
which comes more immediately under our own obser-
vation, and can be examined with more attention and
accuracy. The propagation of the Gospel of Christ
has much ameliorated the moral character of those
nations which have experienced its blessed influence;
and a corresponding favourable alteration in the de-
velopement of the brain, has been the unerring result.
We are far from wishing our readers to take our mere
assertions as proof; let them look around, and they
will discover substantiating circumstances in all direc-
tions. In this Colony there is the utmost facility
afforded to the inquiring investigator, to arrive at the
truth ; let him compare the average moral develope-
ment of the Aborigines of the colony with that of its
Christian inhabitants and he will find ample confir-
mation of what we have advanced. But even such
comparison should be made with care, and regulated
by a competent knowdedge of the subject; for nothing
has been so fatal to the science as the audacious and
presumptuous pretensions of would-be-learned igno-
rance. There are instances among the Aborigines,
uncultivated and savage as they are, of very highly
developed intellect and morality, which, regulated by
a good education and influenced by proper example,
would entitle the untutored denizen of the forest to
a considerable standing among civilized men. And


on the other hand, it is lamentable to acknowledge,
that there are numberless instances where men who
bear the name of Christians might blush at the com-
parison between them and their sable brethren. But
the subject of the Phrenological developement of the
Aborigines of New South Wales, as it has more
immediate reference to the colony, and on that account
will not onlv more interest our readers, but will be
more peculiarly appropriate to the columns of this
Journal, will demand more space and consideration
than we are at present able to give to it. We shall,
therefore, defer the subject to some future article, which
shall be devoted wholly to its consideration.
I stated before that the dispensation of Christianity
had been productive of much moral good—but it has
also tended in every way to the enlightenment of man-
kind. There is no doubt that the intellectual supe-
riority of the present age, is owing to the Divine
Revelation, and it is worthy of consideration, how
strongly Phrenology is supported by this fact; the
nations professing Christianity, being possessed of a
strikingly favourable developement of brain in regard
to the intellect ; while nations which know not the
Bible, are, in general, noted for their mean and inferior
anterior developement of brain. 1 am aware, that the
truth of this last assertion will be much called into
question, the evidence not being so conclusive as in
the case of the moral developement; but I have made
it with due consideration, and am fully prepared to
support my position.
ÆNEAS.
LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL.
WEEKLY ABSTRACT.
WEDNESDAY.
Official communication was made to the House of
the resignation, by Hastings Elwin, Esq., of his seat
in the Council ; and of the appointment by his Excel-
lency the Governor, of John Bayley Darvall, Esq., to
the vacant seat. Mr. Darvall was introduced by the
Colonial Secretary and the Attorney-General, and
took the oath and his seat.
The Speaker informed the House that the Attorney-
General would undertake, in accordance with the re-
quest of the House, to apply to the Supreme Court for
leave to file a criminal information against Messrs.
Macdermott, Macfarlane, and Moore.
The Colonial Secretary laid on the table returns
relative to the Appropriation of the Territorial and
Casual Revenues of the Crown, and also Returns of
of the Outlay incurred on account of the Aborigines
in certain Districts of the Colony.
Mr. Robinson presented a Petition from the inha-
bitants of the district of Port Phillip relative to the
Mail Conveyance, an addition to which had been
refused by the Governor, as the Colonial Secretary
explained, on account of the additional outlay required.
Petitions were also presented from the Melbourne
Corporation—the Mechanics in Government employ
in Sydney—the Bourke District Council, and the
Inhabitants of Geelong.
After several Notices of Motion, Mr. Cowper moved
an address to the Governor—the substance of which
was to enquire into the circumstances of a building at
Parramatta—charged to the Church of England —
having been appropriated as a Roman Catholic Orphan
School.
The Colonial Secretary having explained that
the expense of such building was originally voted
under the head of Roman Catholic Schools, and that
its being transferred in the printed accounts to the
Church of England was merely an error, Mr. Cowper
withdrew his motion.
Mr. Lowe moved an Address to the Governor, re-
questing a return of all fees received in the Supreme
Court Office for swearing Affidavits, from the time of
the appointment of Mr. Elyard as Chief Clerk until
the present period ; also a like return from the Office
of the Chief Commissioner of Insolvent Estates, dis-
tinguishing, in both cases, what portion thereof has
been received during the appointment of Mr. Sydney
Smith to be a Commissioner of Affidavits : the object
of the enquiry, he said, was to ascertain whether the
present system of employing Commissioners was
beneficial.
After remarks from the Colonial Secretary, and
others,, the Address was agreed to.
On the motion of Dr. Nicholson, the returns of the
sums voted and expended, See., for the various public
works in the colony, were ordered to be printed.
The Bill to continue the Catarrh in Sheep Act was
read a second time, and ordered to be committeed on
Friday next.
The Council resolved itself into Committee on the
Jury Laws Bill, Dr. Nicholson in the Chair; after
some discussion and slight alteration, with the addition
of a clause extending the operation of the Bill to the
district of Port Phillip, the Bill was adopted. The
Council then resumed, and the Chairman having re-
ported the Bill, it was ordered to be engrossed and
read a third time on Friday next.
THURSDAY.
The Colonial Secretary presented, in return to a
motion of Mr. Wentworth, copies of the various Com-
missions of the Governors of the Colony down to the
present time, which were ordered to be referred to the
Grievance Committee.
On the motion of Mr. Windeyer it was agreed that
the Speaker be instructed to take all necessary mea-
sures in communication with the Attorney-General
for carrying into effect the prosecution of Messrs.
Macdermott, Macfarlane, and Moore.
The Council proceeded to the consideration of the
Governor's Message on the District Councils Bill.
The Message being read, the Colonial Secretary rose
to move that the Bill which accompanied the Message
just read to the House be now read a first time, which,
after some introductory remarks from the mover, was
done.
The Colonial Secretary then moved that the Bill
be printed and read a second time on Thursday, Ist
August. Considerable discussion ensued, which
ended in its virtual rejection by a motion from Mr.
Cowper, that the Bill be read a second time that day
six months. The Council having divided, the amend-
ment was carried by a majority of seven.
The Governor’s Message on the Police Assessment
Bill having been read, the Colonial Secretary, after a
few remarks, moved the first reading of the Bill. Mr,
Windeyer moved as an amendment the previous ques-
tion, and the amendment was carried on division,
without discussion, by a majority of seven.
The Governor’s Message on the Campbelltown Dis-
trict Councillor’s Election Bill was read, and met with
a similar reception.


FRIDAY.
Mr. Walker moved for leave to bring in a bill to
authorize the exportation of Colonial made Spirits,
under the same regulations as those under which
foreign spirits are authorised to be exported. The bill
was read a first time and ordered to be printed, and
read a second time on Friday, August 16.
The Council resolved itself into Committee upon the
Catarrh in Sheep Bill, which was adopted, reported,
and ordered to be read a third time on Wednesday
next.
The House having resolved itself into Committee
for the further consideration of the Apprentices’ Bill,
several amendments and additions were, after consi-
deration, proposed and carried, and the Council having
resumed, the Bill was reported and ordered to be en-
grossed arid read a third time on Thursday (this day.)
The third reading of the Jury Act Amendment Bill,
was postponed till this day, and the further conside-
ration of the Customs Bill also postponed till Wednes-
day, (yesterday,) to which day the Council then
adjourned.
COMMERCIAL REVIEW.
Business throughout the week has been dull in the extreme,
and sales generally have been very trivial. The arrival of the
brig “Sarah,” from Singapore, with a small cargo of Tea and
Sugar, is scarcely worthy of note, being imported principally to
order ; the stock of sugar on hand is very limited, and holders
are firm for advanced prices. By the overland mail from Port
Phillip, advices have been received, of the arrival of the brio-
“Soondrapoory” with 296 bags Sugar, and 3,000 chests Tea°,
which is reported to have changed hands at £3 15s. per chest.
The recent arrivals from Launceston, amounting to nearly
20,000 bushels, have tended to depress the Wheat market, sales
have gone off heavily from 4s. to 4s. 2d. per bushel. Samples
of Colonial growth realize from 3s. to 3s. 6d. per bushel, ac-
cording to quality. In other markets no alteration has oc-
curred. The Royal Saxon, Briton, Enmore, aud Lloyd, being
taken up, to convey the troops to India, there is a scarcity of
vessels now in harbour, to take home the increasing Exports of
Tallow, Oil, &c.. The rate of freight to Liverpool is advanced
to £4 10s. per ton.
B. S. LLOYD
Commission Agent, Bridare-street.
°
July 31st, 1844.
EXTRACTS FROM “PUNCH'S ALMANAC.”
January.— Farming Operations.— Set your boys to
thrash grain; and if you find them bad in grain, thrash
the boys also. Pull out your plough to be ready for
Plough Monday. Look to the horns of your cows, to
take care they don’t get “ crumpled.”
February, — The Farm. —Oats may be now sown;
and if they are wild, the sooner the better. Dress
your hedges by hanging shirts and other wearing
apparel to dry upon them.
March. Hints to Country Cousins. —lf you want
to buy ‘ good bargains’ select the shops which are
placarded with “ Immense Failure,” “ Dreadful Sa-
crifice, &c., and when you have paid your money
and taken your goods home, you will find that the
“ immense failure” is the article you have purchased,
and that the “ dreadful sacrifice” is confined entirely
to your own pocket. Farming Operations. —Get your
canots forward, and try Rowland’s Maccassar if the
crop looks un-promising. Plant your potatoes with
salt which gives them a relish ; and dress with bits
of woollen cloth or shreds of old coats, whiph will
improve the potatoe’s jacket. Now sow your P’s :
keep your U’s warm ; hive your B’s ; shoot young J’s ;
feed your N’s; look after your potatoes’ I’s ; and then
take your E’s *
May.— Things to he borne in mind. —That on the
Ist, sweeps may look after coppers, although they
have done with the flues. Black puddings are made
by boiling them in open saucepans over a quick fire,
and under an unswept chimney. This plan will
‘ soot’ all kinds.
J une. — Prediction. —Cocks will crow on the morn-
ing of the 21st and earlier than on any day of the
year. Farming Directions. —Have your shears ready
for your sheep, but don’t resort to scissors except
from sheer necessity. Look to your B’s, and mind
your P’s and Q’s. Resort to spade husbandry, and
dont consider it 1 infra dig.’
July. — lncome Tax. —lf you do not like to pay
this impost, allow your wife the privilege of signing
cheques, and the very next year you will be relieved
of the income-tax.
September. — Moral Reflection. — This is the har-
vest month, and so make the most of ij. Cut away as
fast as you can ; and if your produce won’t pay your
rent, cut away altogether.
December. — Domestic : How to make “ kisses."
Take a bough of mistletoe hang it up in a warm place.
Put beneath it a young lady with whom you are
rather ‘ sweet.’ When she begins to melt, which
you may know by her change of colour, you should
run your rigs and mould your lips for kisses. How
to make a sausage roll. —Let your hair grow to a
moderate length, roll it round curling tongs, taking
care to lard it well with bear’s grease. When the
hair becomes crisp your sausage roll is done. Skewer
with black pins, garnish with artificial flowers, and
serve up in a bonnet of the willow pattern.
Shipping Intelligence.
ARRIVALS.
July 25.—The schooner Eagle, 108 tons, Captain Hodges,
from Circular Head 19th instant, with potatoes &c.
July 25.—The brig Calypso, 105 tons, Captain Han old,
from Launceston the 19th instant, with a cargo cf wheat &c.
July 26.—The barque Giraffe, 264 tons, Captain Grant,
from Launceston the 21 st instant, with wheat, &c.
July 27.—The schooner Star of China , 100 tons, Captain
I inlay from Wellington the 6th and Nelson the 14th instant,
with oil, &c.
July 28.—The schooner Wanderer 131 tons, Captain Burns,
from Launceston the 24th instant, with wheat, &c.
July 29.—' The barque Lady Gray 324 tons, Captain
Hawkes, from Hobart Town, the 25th instaut, with sundries.
July 30.—The brig Governor Phillip, 188 tons, Captain
Boyle, from Norfolk Island, the 4th instant.
July 30.—The barque Blundell, 521 tons, Captain Hunter,
from the Downs 20th March, and Norfolk Island 6th instant,
with surplus stores, &c.
July 31.—The ship St. Vincent, from Cork, with emigrants.
DEPARTURES.
July 26.—The brig Tobago, Captain Pockley, for Port Phillip
via Newcastle, in ballast.
f ul y 26 - —The barque Nimrod, Captain Sullivan, for the
Whale Fishery, with stores, &c.
July 26.—The schooner Governor, Captain Williamson, for
the Cape of Good Hope, with cedar.
July 29.—The schooner Wave, Captain-Camroux. fo; Howe’s
Island, with sundries.
July 30.—The brig Martha, Captain Walker, for Launces-
toh, via Twofold Bay, with coals, Sic.
July 30.—The ship Ganges, Captain Macdonald, for Lon-
don, with colonial produce,
July 31,—The schooner William, for Moreton Bay.


Wltltffl.
Oa the 21st instant, at Newcastle Mrs. Becke, of a son.'
On the 24th instant at Parramatta, the wife of Mr C. W.
Rowling, of a son.
On the 25tli instant, at her residence, Aslifield Park, Mrs.
Henry Halloran, of a son.
On the 26th instant, at her residence, Sydney Glebe, Mrs.
E. H. Pollard, of a son.
On the 25th instant, at her residence, Hyde Park, the lady
of J. De Courcy Bremer, Esq., of a daughter.
On the 27th instant at her residence, Wooloornooloo, Mrs. A.
G. Dumas, of a daughter.
J&arrtagc.
On the 26th instant, at Balmain, by the Rev. Dr. M’Garvie,
Mr. William Currie, to Miss Ann M’Pherson.
£3catf)S.
At his late residence Newtown, alter a long and painful
illness, Mr William Imney Morris, much regretted by a
numerous circle of friends.
On the 27th instant, Henry John, the infant son of Mr.
Thomas Odell, Cumberland-place.
On the 29th instant, at his residence, Pitt-street, Mr. John
Price, engraver, aged forty, sincerely regretted by all who
knew him.
J. THOMAS’S
London and Manchester Military and Naval Hat and Cap
Establishment, corner of George and Bridge-streets.
J THOM AS, in returning thanks for the continued run of
. patronage he has so long enjoyed under public favour,
begs permission to inform his friends and the public, both in
town and country, that he has received some very heavy con-
signments of Goods by recent arrivals, which enables him to
sell a superior and more fashionable Article than has hitherto
been sported in this Colony, and at remarkable Low Prices.
G. & L.—The usual variety of Gentlemen’s and Ladies’
Beaver Riding Hats, of the best quality, and to every
one’s taste and shape, is always on hand.
*** His Young Ladies’ and Children’s Beaver Bon-
nets are also becoming much worn.
M. & N. —Military and Naval Uniform Hats, and Regulation
Caps, are supplied at a very small advance on the
Bond-street prices.
—The Lamb’s Wool Travelling or Bush Hats and
Caps are peculiarly recommended for the winter season
now fairly set in.
Youths’ and Boys Caps and Hats, suited for every age, and
and for the supply of schools, are in large quantities
*** Livery servants’ Hats, trimmed in Lace or Corded, on
the shortest notice, and at the correct figure. *
APARTMENTS TO LET.
p. g.—Mr. J. Thomas is willing to let his four splendid
rooms, first floor, to a respectable family, on fair terms. The
double frontage room, with balcony in front, is 22 feet square,
and the others are three rooms proportionally suitable. The
use of the kitchen and back yard will be included in the
letting.
THE CITY DEPOT,
CORNER OF KING AND GEORGE STREETS.
HENRY FISHER, begs to remind the public he has
always on hand,
West India Rum, in or out of bond, 2 gallons and upwards
Fine Cogniac Brandy, ditto ditto
Cchedam Gin, ditto ditto
Wines, Port, Sherry, Marsala, &c., &c., by the dozen
Tea, in chests and half-chests, ex Trinidad
Sugar, bright Mauritius
Dunbar’s and Byass’ Ale and Porter
Segars, best Manilla, No. 4 and s’s
Taylor's Porter
Allsopp’s Ale, in hhds. and barrels
Scotcii Ale, in bottle
Tobacco, Negrohead and Colonial
Bacon, Hams, Cheese, &c., &c.
Van Diemen’s Land Flour
'And a variety of other Articles too numerous to particularize.
HENRY FISHER.
Ist August, 1844.
AWNOnMCSaESBTT.
THE Undersigned begs to return thanks to his friends and
the public for the liberal support he has received
during the last eight years, and to inform them that, in conse-
quence of ill health, he has disposed of the whole of his interest
in the business lately carried on by him, as Bookseller and
Stationer, together with the Stock-in-trade, to his late assis-
tant, Mr. W. A. Colman, for whom he solicits the same
patronage so liberally bestowed upon himself; feeling assured
that Mr. C. will, by strict attention to business, and keeping a
constant supply of the best articles, do everything in his power
to merit their support.
JAMES TEGG.
George-street, Sydney, July 8.
W A. COLMAN announces to his friends andtheinha-
• bitants of the Australian colonies, that he has pur-
chased the entire Stock-in-trade of Mr. James Tegg, Bookseller
and Stationer, (opposite the Barrack-gate) Sydney, and hopes,
by strict attention to their orders, keeping a well-selected
stock, and moderate charges, to merit a continuance of the fa-
vours bestowed upon his predecessor.
W. A. C. feels confident that an experience gained in one of
the first wholesale houses in London, together with the
knowledge of the colonial business, (acquired during the period
of six years at the head of Mr. Tegg’s establishment) combined
with the opportunities which he has of importing at the lowest
price, will enable him to keep up such a regular supply of
Books and Stationery, as to justify his hopes of giving satisfac-
to all who may honour him with a portion of their patronage,
Sydney, 485, George-street,
Opposite the Barrack-gate.
July 23.
R ri OTECB,
JUST RECEIVED, ex Georgetown, and opened for inspec-
tion, at Mr. C. Chapman’s, 40G, George-street, next door
to the Royal Hotel-
Four cases, consisting of rich blond bredes; gold, silver, and
pearl head dresses, coronets, wreaths and flowers, of very supe-
rior styles. Ladies are respectfully invited to inspect them for
the ensuing Ball.
In addition to the above, there are a few rich silks, satins,
satinets, ladies and infants’ ready-made linen, also, a few in-
fants’ tuscan hats.
The above have arrived in excellent condition.
©olotttal literary journal,
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
THE TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION to this Journal
are, Three Shillings per Quarter, in Town ; Country,
Three Shillings and Sixpence ; payable, in every case,
in advance.
Terms for Advertisements: —For one inch, and under,
Three Shillings; and One Shilling for every additional inch,
each insertion. Advertisements will be received until Two
o’clock on Wednesday afternoon; but cannot be withdrawn
later than Nine o’clock on Wednesday morning. Adver-
tisements must specify on the face of them the number o!
times they are to be inserted, or they will be continued till
countermanded, and charged accordingly.
Parties signifying their intention of becoming Subscribers
to the Colonial Literary Journal, are informed that the first
numbers may be still obtained on application to their respec-
tive Agents, and at the Office.
Agents for this Journal.
Sydney, Mr. W. Jones, Circulating Library, Brickfield-hill
Parramatta Mr. Hugh Taylor
Windsor Mr. Walker.
Bathurst Mr. Tress.
West Maitland Mr. Galloway:
Camden, Campbelltown, Penrith, and
Liverpool Mr. C. Lester.
Gunning Mr. Hawthorne.
