

COLONIAL
LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
U NON TUA TE MOVEANT, SED PUBLICA VOTA.”
Vol. I. No. 11.]
SYDNEY, THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1844.
[Price 4d.
ON THE ACHIEVEMENTS OF THE ARTS
AND SCIENCES.
[Continued.]
The science of Political Economy lias been no less
serviceable in the advancement of national and indi-
vidual welfare. From the time of Adam Smith, when
this science was first placed on a proper basis, until
now, any one who has paid attention to the history
of Britain during that period, and observed the
rapid progress she has made in her manufacturing,
mercantile, and commercial departments, cannot have
failed to trace much of her prosperity and comfort
to the cultivation and application of this science,
and must have recognised the names of Smith, Mill,
and Maculloch, as those of men who are and have
been the friends of mankind, and whose genius and
labours were devoted to the refinement of social hap-
piness, and the consolidation of the moral and poli-
tical fabric. r
The science of Geology is one of modern date; its
birth is but of yesterday, but its growth has been that
ol a giant. Many of the wonders of our globe are dis-
played by it, and her internal structure has been
ramified, stratified, and classified. Man can now, by
the application of this science, enter the bowels of the
earth with certainty to gain the end he has in view.
The lofty science of Astronomy presents another
proud achievement of the Arts and Sciences. By
means of the telescope, many of the wonders of the
celestial world have been discovered, and by the aid of
the immutable truths of Arithmetic and Algebra, ap-
plied to a sublime Geometry, the paths of planets and
comets have been determined; the times of eclipses,
and the rapidity of light have been ascertained; the
rotundity of our globe, her diurnal and annual motions,
and the causes of tne tides and the seasons, have all
been clearly established. Kapler made out that the
squares of the times of the revolutions of the planets,
are as the cubes of their mean distances from the sun.
Newton determined that all-important principle that
le power of gravitation increases as the square' of the
“ r,r r r SeS ; T B ? the immersi ° n and emersion
travel at th l e !° f / U , Plter, :iight has been found to
travel at the rate of about 200,000 miles per second,
ceived 5 y hat may be mentioned > but cannot be con-
By such discoveries as these, made out by the
lenC f’ the mathematical astronomer has
presented a mathematical code, whereby the mariner
.may be wafted to his desired destinatioi/with the same
accuracy that one might go to a city a few miles off-
they have enabled him to chart out a course o’er the wide
expanse of the deep, and given him a power whereby his
bark may be conducted through the shades of night as
swiftly and securely as at noon day. Such are the tro-
phies the Arts and Sciences present; such are some of
the matchless achievements of Newton, and others, too
numerous to mention : personages sacred to immor-
tality—yes, a glory encircles their deeds, and their
names will never wax dim, but shall gather in lustre,
and defy the tarnishing of time while the Arts and
Sciences exist. But these form only a fraction of a
fragment of what the Arts and Sciences have accom-
plished. By them we are carried o’er the hill and
through the glen by a locomotive power that baffles in
rapidity the swiftest steed. By them we are conveyed
through a great part of the wide world. We are
winged up the winding river, across the lake, along
the coast, and even the broad Atlantic has been
measured by the omnipofent power of steam produced
by the Arts and Sciences. They have illuminated our
houses and streets ■, given engines to prevent the progress
of conflagration. They have gifted the feeble powers
of man with a force whereby he can elevate 1000 tons
weight of material far above the level of the sea. By
their means the exhaustless ingenuity of man has made
a thoroughfare through mountains and beneath rivers ;
traversed through the atmosphere, and ransacked the
bottom of the deep by means of the diving-bell. Thou-
sands of lives are now saved by the day lamp, and tens
of thousands by the life boat and the liglit-house. By
the extension of Physical and Chemical Science, such
calamities as the plagues of London, or the pesti-
lence that was wont to pervade thickly peopled com-
munities, have been to a great extent extirpated. By
science and by art, lunatic asylums, bridewells, and
gaols, are beginning to be governed in a more philo-
sophical manner. In short, by the endless triumphs
that man has gained, and the exalted system of philo-
sophy he pursues, he feels no longer impotent and
ridiculous, but calmly vanquishes the barriers that'
impede his march, eludes the cause of pain, widens
the range of enjoyment, and at the same time feels the
dignity of intellect, which, like a magician’s talisman,
has made all things to bow before his feet. These are
a few of the wonders that the Arts and Sciences have
already performed. But what they will yet accom-
plish, would baffle the mathematician to calcu-
late, or the most prophetic powers of man to anticipate.
Will it be too bold to assert that time will not have
announced the departure of the nineteenth century ere
a man will be conveyed from Britain to Botany Bay in


a vessel propelled by electricity, and perhaps return in a
baloon ?—that by the extension and rapidity of railways,
an Australian may yet take his breakfast in Sydney,
and five hours after find himself dispatching a bowl of
soup in a Melbourne cook-shop ? —that by animal
magnetism a philosopher will make a mortal speak
and think as he chooses, moving his lips and directing
his thoughts like a puppet-show ? But it will not be
philosophers alone that will arrive at such a high pitch
of perfection ; every other individual will progress in
the same ratio. Old wives will infuse their tea on the
newest principles of Chemistry. Young ladies will
shape their bonnets on the profoundest principles of
conic sections ; nay, more —at the desponding age of
forty may be enabled to move with as much splendour,
and with their heads as highly wafted in the air, as at
the blooming and impenetrable period of eighteen
a period with ladies when the effect of art and science
seems to reach its zenith, as pourtrayed on their
beauteous persons, and evinced from their ennobling
minds.
Will it be reckoned too wild an hypothesis to sup-
pose that people will yet emigrate to the moon, and
that by a regular telegraphic dispatch, a manufacturer
on the planet earth will always be aware how wool is
selling on the ring of Saturn ? But to be serious—in
the midst of all this high state of refinement, those who
are in the possession of great intellectual calibres will
not be neglected. They who have spent many an
hour o’er "the midnight taper will share the general
good. Many are the pangs they have felt, and multi-
tudinous the repulses they have received ; but let them
not despond, for in such an age they will receive their
reward.
The advancement of the and Sciences must be
of the deepest interest to every philanthropist; in a
moral point of view in particular. They are eminently
calculated to further his aims. His highest happiness
is centred in the civilization of man. Their influence
is to exalt a people in moral as well as intellectual
elevation ; for wheresoever they have planted their
standard, there they have unfurled the broad banners
of benignity ; wheresoever they have pitched their
camp, there they have published peace and good will
to all men ; wherever has been their march, they have
always put to flight the phantoms of ignorance, and
circumscribed the reign of superstition ; wherever has
been heard the noise of their chariot wheels and the
hoofs of their horses, there they have always proved
to tyranny terrible as an army with banners. Science
is the soother of the passions and the architect of
reason —that column of true majesty in man. Science
dignifies the dome of thought, the palace of the soul.
Science enables us to possess our souls in patience.
“ Hark how the holy calm around
Bids every fierce tumultuous passion cease.”
Science is the harbinger of toleration, and the anti-
dote of bigotry. Science has for its aim the circu-
lation of intelligence. In the words of Napoleon, there
is nothing nobler than the extension of ideas. Science
builds the battlements of mechanics’ institutions, the
ultimate aim of all scientific investigation tending to
bring the course of events as much as possible under
our control, in order that we may turn it to our advan-
tage, and this forms the corner-stone of these philo-
sophical fabrics, But time would fail to register the
accomplishments of art and science They will pro-
gress, glorious in their strength, trampling every
obstacle under foot, bending the stubborn elements of
nature, and building the temple of moral excellent e,
until sense and w orth o’er a 5 the earth shall bear the
palm—until knowledge shall extend wherever exists
the human form divine, marching forward, conquering,
and to conquer, until time shall be no more.
CALEDONIA.
Biography.
SPENSER.
[From various sources.]
Passing over an interval of more than a century and a half
from the death of Chaucer, during which no noted poetical
genius appeared in England, with the exception of Sir Philip
Sidney, at the commencement of Elizabeth’s reign, we meet
with Spenser, the celebrated author of the Fairy Queen.
Edmund Spenser was descended from an ancient family in
Northamptonshire, and was born in London, in 1553. In 1576*
having completed his degrees in arts, he stood for a fellowship,
in which he was unsuccessful; and this disappointment, joined
with the narrowness of his circumstances, forced him to quit
the University. He now went to live in retirement at the
house of a friend, in the north of England, and became here
enamoured of the Rosalind whom he finely celebrates in his
pastoral poems, and of whose cruelty he- has written very
pathetical complaints. It is probable that, about this time,
his genius first began to distinguish itself; for the Shepherd’s
Calendar , which is so full of his unprosperous passion for
Rosalind, was amongst the first of his works of note, and the
supposition is strengthened by the consideration that poetry
is frequently the offspring of love and retirement. This work
he addressed, by a short dedication, to Sir Philip Sidney. It
was in 1578, that Spenser, at the persuasion of his friend, Mr.
Harvey, removed to London, where that gentleman introduced
him to the notice of Sidney, who was now in the highest repu-
tation both for wit and gallantry, and the most popular of all
the courtiers of his age ; and as he was himself a writer, and
especially excelled in the fabulous or inventive kind of poetry,
it is no wonder he was struck with our author’s genius, and
became sensible of his merit. By this universal patron of
genius, he was presented to Queen Elizabeth, who honoured
him with the place of poet-laureate; but, through the ill-will
of Lord Treasurer Burleigh, the Queen’s favours to this un-
happy great man were intercepted, and he for some time wore
only a barren laurel, possessing merely the place without the
pension.
About this time he finished his poem entitled the Shepherd’s
Calendar, which was first printed in 1579 ; and in the following
year, being recommended by his patron to the Earl of Leicester,
he went to Ireland as secretary to the Lord Grey of Wilton,
then appointed Lord Lieutenant of that kingdom. Lord Grey
was re-called in 1582, and with him Spenser returned to
London, where he continued till after the death of Sir Philip
Sidney-, who was killed at the battle of Zutphen, in the Low
Countries, in 1586, an event which our poet bewailed to the
end of his life.
The following year, Spenser, having obtained a royal grant
of 3000 acres of forfeited land in the county of Cork, in Ireland,
set out for that kingdom, took possession of his estate, and
fixed his residence in the C3stle of Kilcolman, which had
belonged to the Earl of Desmond. Much about this time he
contracted an intimate friendship with the great and learned
Sir Walter Raleigh,- who was then a captain under the Lord
Grey. The poem of Spenser’s called Colin Clout’s Come Home
Again, in which Sir Walter is described as the “shepherd of


the ocean,” is a beautiful memorial of this friendship, which
took its rise from a similarity of taste in the polite arts, and
which he agreeably describes with a softness and delicacy
peculiar to him. Sir Walter afterwards promoted him in
Queen Elizabeth’s esteem, through whose recommendation she
read his writings.
In his retirement at Kilcolman he resumed his great work
the Fairy Queen, and continued in Ireland till the year 1589,
when he came over to England with Sir'Walter Raleigh, but
returned to Ireland the year following, where he fell in love
with a merchant’s daughter, and married her. Soon after his
marriage, he paid another visit to his native country, where
we also find him in 1596. In the following year he returned
once more to Kilcolman; but on the rebellion of Lord Tyrone,
who ravaged the whole county of Cork, he was obliged to fly
for safety with his family to England, where, according to
Drummond of Hawthornden, he died in extreme poverty, in
the year 1599. It has, however, since been discovered, by
examining the patent roll, that, in February, 1591, Spenser
obtained from Queen Elizabeth an annuity of £5O during his
life; a sum equivalent to about £2OO at present. He was
buried in Westminster Abbey, near Chaucer, according to his
request, and a monument was erected to his memory by Ann,
Countess of Dorset.
Spenser’s principal poem, the Fairy Queen, is a sort of con-
tinued allegory, or a series of metaphorical legends, strung
together in rather an unconnected manner. He raises up a
hero for every one of his adventures, and endows each of them
with some particular moral virtue, which renders them all
equal, without subordination or preference ; except that Prince
Arthur, by whom he means Sir Philip Sidney, is made to
shine throughout the whole poem, and succours the rest when
they are in distress. The original of every one of his knights
was then living in the court of Queen Elizabeth ; and he
attributed to each of them that virtue which he thought was
most conspicuous them ; an ingenious piece of flattery,
which, however, did not turn much to his account. Had he
lived to finish his poem in the remaining legends, it had cer-
tainly been more of a piece, but could not have been perfect,
because the model was not true. Prince Arthur, or his chief
patron, Sir Philip Sidney, dying before him, however, deprived
the poet both of means and spirit to accomplish his design.
Spenser possessed the abstract faculty of poetry, in'a higher
degree than any other poet in England. He occupies, in
common with three other illustrious men, the first rank of
poetical fame in his country ; but, in the truest sense of the
term poetry, he stands before all, unapproachable alone. When
we wish to be removed altogether from the actual world, to
take up our residence in the exclusive poetical region, to be
laid in the bosom of a more quiet and a more lovely nature
than that of earth, we must resort to the works of Spenser.
Himself a man of action, his poetry is the expression of per-
fect luxuriousness and relaxation ; of a fairy-land of volup-
tuous sentiment and fancy, where the pathos that is there
does not act with tears, and the passion and strength that are
there also, influence us through a medium of visionary sub-
limity, and by associations of preternatural power. The' con-
trolling presence of the poetry of Spenser, is a love of beauty
and a sense of pleasure. We have them equally in his de-
scription of a lonely solitude, or of a scene of more than
eastern magnificence; in his picture of a withered old man in
his cave, or of the wanton beauties of an enchanted lake.
Spenser’s imagination is inexhaustible, and his command of
language the most copious and most various. And although
his genius is, as we have said, steeped in pleasure, all it sends
forth may rank in the very first orders of refinement and
moral truth. If a fault could be charged indeed against his
great poem, it would be perhaps that its moral design is even
obtrusive.. He has had many imitators among the poets of
modern times, and several have written in his style with very
considerable success. “To imitate the fictions and sentiments
of Spenser,” says Dr. Johnson, “can incur no reproach, for
allegory is perhaps one of the most pleasing vehicles of in-
struction, But lam very far from extending the same respect
to his diction or his stanza. His style was, in his own time,
allowed to be vicious, so darkened with old words and pecu-
liarities of phrase, and so remote from common use, that Ben
Jonson boldly pronounces him to have written no language.
His stanza is at once difficult and unpleasing; tiresome to the
ear by its uniformity, and to the attention by its length. It
was at first formed in imitation of the Italian poets, without
due regard to the genius of our language.”
Notwithstanding the opinion here given by the learned
doctor in regard to the Spenserian stanza, it must be remarked
that this stanza has been used with great-success by several
of our distinguished poets in some of their most popular pro-
ductions; particularly by Waller, Thomson, Burns, Beattie,
Byron, and Tennant. By far the most successful imitation of
the style and manner, as well as of the stanza of Spenser,
which is to be found in the English language, is Thomson’s
admirable poem of the Castle of Indolence , in which it may
safely be affirmed that he has carried the palm, and has left
his master, in most respects, far behind.
AN UNPAID PUFF FOR THE LAWYERS.
[From the “Dublin University Magazine.”]
Authors have long got the credit of being the most
accomplished persons going—thoroughly conversant
not only with the features of every walk and class in
life, but also with their intimate sentiments, habits of
thought, and modes of expression. Now, I have long
been of opinion, that in all these respects, lawyers
are infinitely their superiors. The author chooses
his characters as you choose your dish or your wine
at dinner—he takes what suits, and leaves what is
not available to his piTrpose. He then fashions them
to his hand—finishing off this portrait, sketching that
one—now bringing certain figures into strong light,
anon throwing them into shadow : they are his
creatures, who must obey him wjiile living, and even
die at his command. Now, the lawyer is called on for
all the narrative and descriptive powers of his art, at
a moment’s notice, without time for reading and
preparation ; and worse than all, his business fre-
quently lies among the very arts and callings, his
taste is most repugnant to. One day he is to be found
creeping, with a tortoise slowness, through all the
wearisome intricacy of an equity case —the next,
he is borne along in a torrent of indignant eloquence,
in defence of some Orange processionist or some
Ribbon associate : now he describes, wrth the gravity
of a landscape gardener, the tortuous windings of a
mill-stream; now expatiating in Lytton Bulwerisms
over the desolate hearth and broken fortunes of some
deserted husband. In one Court he attempts to prove
that the elderly gentleman whose life was insured for
a thousand at the Phoenix, was instrumental to his
own decease, for not eating cayenne with his oysters ;
in another, he shows, with palpable clearness, that
being stabbed in the body, and having the head frac-
tured'is a venial offence, and merely the result of
“ political excitement” in a high-spirited and warm-
hearted people.
These are all clever efforts, and demand consum-
mate powers, at the hand of him who makes them;


but what are they, to that deep and critical research
with which he seems, instinctively, to sound the
depths of every scientific walk in life, and every
learned profession. Hear him in a lunacy case—
listen to the deep and subtle distinctions he draws
between the symptoms of mere eccentricity and erring
intellect—remark how insignificant the physician
appears in the case, who has made these things the
study of a long life—hear how the barrister confounds
him with a hail-storm of technicals—talking of the
pineal gland as if it was an officer of the court, and
of atrophy of the cerebral'lobes, as if he w r as speaking
of an attorney’s clerk. Listen to him in a trial of
supposed death by poison, what a triumph he has there,
particularly if he be a junior barrister—how he walks
undismayed among all the tests for arsenic—how
little he cares for Marsh’s apparatus and Scheele’s
discoveries—hydro-sulphates, peroxydes, iodurates,
and proto-chlorides, are familiar to him as household
words. You would swear that he was nursed at a
glass retort, and sipped his first milk through a
blow-pipe. Like a child who thumps the keys of a
pianoforte, and imagines himself a Listz or Moschelles,
so does your barrister revel amid the phraseology of
a difficult science—pelting the witnesses with his
insane blunders, and assuring the jury that their as-
tonishment means ignorance. Nothing in anatomy is
too deep—nothing in chemistry too subtle—no fact
in botany too obscure—no point in metaphysics too
difficult. Like Dogberry, these things are to him
but the gift of God ; and he knows them at his birth.
Truly, the chancellor is a powerful magician ; and
the mystic words by which he calls a gentleman to
the bar, must have some potent spell within them. —
The youth you remember as if it were yesterday, the
lounger at evening parties, or the chaperon of riding
damsels to the Phoenix, comes forth now a man of deep
and consummate acquirement—he whose chemistry
-went no further than the composition of a “ tumbler
of punch,” can now perform tfie most difficult expe-
riments of Orfila or Davy, or explain the causes of
failure in a test that has puzzled the scientific world
for half a century. He knows the precise monetary
value of a deserted .maiden’s affections —he can tell
you the exact sum, in bank notes, that a widow will
be knocked down for, when her heart has been subject*
to but a feint attack of Cupid. With what consum-
mate skill, too, he can show that an indictment is
invalid, when stabbing is inserted for cutting ; and
when the crown prosecutor has been deficient in his
descriptive anatomy, what a glorious field for display
is opened to him. Then, to be sure, what droll fel-
lows they are ! —how they do quize the witness as he
sits trembling on the table —what funny allusions to
his habits of life—his age—his station—turning the
whole battery of their powers of ridicule against him
—ready, if he venture to retort, to throw themselves
on the protection of the court. And truly, if a little
Latin suffice for a priest, a little wit goes very far in
a law court. A joke is a universal blessing : the
judge, who, after all, is only “ an old lawyer,” loves
it from habit; the jury, generally speaking, are seldom
in such good company, and they laugh frtim com-
plaisance ; and the bar joins in the mirth, on that great
reciprocity principle, which enables them to bear
each other’s dulness, and dine together afterwards.
How delightful to know that we have those amongst
us who know all things, feel all things, explain all
things, and reconcile all things—who can throw such
a Claude Lorraine light over right and wrong, that they
are both mellowed into a sweet and hallowed softness,
delightful to gaze on. How the secret of this uni-
versal acquirement is accomplished I know not. Per-
haps it is the wig—if so, I wish we had one for the
use of our sub-editor.
What first set me in this train of thought, was a
trial I lately read, where a cross action was sustained
for damages at sea —the owners of the brig Durham
against the Aurora, a foreign vessel, and vice versa ,
for the result of a collision at noon on the 14th
November. It appeared that both the vessels had
taken shelter in the Humber from stress of weather,
nearly at the same time —that the Durham which
preceded the Prussian vessel ■, u clewed up her top-
sails, and dropped her anchor rather suddenly ; and
the Aurora being in the rear, the vessels came in
collision.” The question, therefore, was, whether the
Durham came to anchor too precipitately, and in an
unseamanlike manner ; or in other words, whether
when the “ Durham clewed up top-sails and let go
her anchor, the Aurora should not have luffed up or
got stern way on her,” &o. Nothing could possibly
be more instructive, nor any thing scarcely more
amusing, than the lucid arguments employed by the
counsel on both sides. The learned Thebans, that
would have been sick in a ferry-boat, spoke as if they
had circumnavigated the globe. Stay-sails, braces,
top-gallants, clews, and capstans, they hurled at each
other like bonbons at a carnival; and this naval
engagement lasted from day-light to dark. Once
only, when the judge “made it noon,” for a little
refection, did they cease conflict, to renew the strife
afterwards with more deadly daring, till at last so
confused were the witnesses—the plaintiff, defendant,
and all, that they half wished they had both gone to
the bottom, before they thought of settling their dif-
ferences in the Admiralty Court. This was no common
occasion for the display of these powers so peculiarly
the gift of the bar, and certainly they used it with all
the enthusiasm of~a bonne bouche.
How I trembled for the Aurora, when an elderly
gentleman with a wart on his nose, assured the court
that the Durham had her top-sail backed ten minutes
before the anchor fell; and then how I feared again
for the Durham, as a thin man in spectacles worked
the Prussian about in a double-reefed mainsail, and
stood round in stays so beautifully. I thought myself
at sea, so graphic was the whole description—the
waves splashed and foamed around the bulwarks, and
broke in spray upon the deck—the wind rattled amid
the rigging—the bulk heads creaked, and the good
ship heaved heavily in the trough of the sea, like a
mighty monster in its agony.
Alas ! ye Coopers—ye Marryatts—ye Chamiers —
ye historians of storm and sea-fight, how inferior are
your triumphs compared with the descriptive eloquence
of a law court. Here are the men, w r ho, without the
trickery of trade, ungilt, unlettered, and unillustra-
ted, can move the world to laughter and to tears.
They ask no aid from Colburn, nor from Cruikshank
—they need not Brown nor Longman. Heaven-born
warriors, doctors, chemists, and anatomists —deep in
every art, learned in every science—mankind is to
them an open book, which they read at will, and con
over at leisure—happy country, where we have you
in abundance, and where your talents are so available,
that they can be had for asking.


History.
ANCIENT HISTORY: SECTION IX.
THE REPUBLIC OF SPARTA.
1. The origin of this political system has given rise
to much ingenious disquisition among the moderns,
and affords a remarkable instance of the passion for
systematizing. It is a prevailing propensity with
modern philosophers to reduce every thing to general
principles. Man, say they, is always the same animal,
and, when placed in similar situations, will always
exhibit a similar appearance. His manners, his im-
provements, the government and laws under which he
lives, arise necessarily from the situation in which
Ave find him ; and all is the result of a few general
laws of nature which operate universally on the
human species. But in the ardour of this passion for
generalizing, these philosophers often forget, that it
is the knowledge of facts which can alone lead to the
discovery of general laivs; a knoivledge not limited
to the history of a single age or nation, but extended
to that of the whole species in every age and climate.
Antecedently to such knowledge, all historical system
is mere romance.
2. Of this nature is a late theory of the constitu-
tion of Sparta first started by Mr. Brown in his
Essay on Civil Liberty ; and from him adopted by
later writers. It thus accounts for the origin of the
Spartan constitution. 1 The army of the Heraclidae,
when they came to recover the dominion of their
ancestors, was composed of Dorians from Thessaly,
the most barbarous of all the Greek tribes. The
Achteans, the ancient inhabitants of Laconia, Avere
compelled to seek new habitations, while the barba-
rians of Thessaly took possession of their country.
Of all the nations Avhich are the subject of historical
record, this people bore the nearest resemblance to the
rude Americans. An American tribe, where a chief
presides, where a council of the aged deliberate, and
the assembly of the people give their voice, is on the
eve of such a political establishment as the Spartan
constitution.’ The Dorians or Thessalians settled in
Lacedaemon, manifested, it is said, the same manners
with all other nations in a barbarous state. Lvcur-
gus did no more than arrest them in that state, by
forming their usages into IaAVS. He checked them at
once in the first stage of their improvement. ‘He
put forth a bold hand to that spring which is in
society, and stopped its motion.’
3. This theory, hoAvever ingenious, is confuted by
facts. All ancient authors agree, that Lycurgus
operated a total change on the Spartan manners, and
on the constitution of his country ; Avhile the moderns
have discovered that he made no change on either.
The most striking features of the manners and consti-
tution of Sparta have not the smallest resemblance to
those of any rude nations Avith Avhich Ave are ac-
quainted. The communion of slaves and of many
other species of property, the right of the state in the
children of-all the citizens, their common education,
the public tables, the equal division of lands, the oath
of government betiveen the kings and people, have no
parallel in the history of any barbarous nations.
4. Ihe real history of Sparta and its constitution
is therefore not to be found in modern theory, but in
the writings of the Greek historians, and these are
our sole authorities worthy of credit.
After the return of the Heraclidse, Sparta was
divided between the two sons of Aristodemus, Eu-
rysthenes and Procles, who jointly reigned : and this
double monarchy, transmitted to the descendants of
each, continued in the separate branches for near 900
years. A radical principle of disunion, and conse-
quent anarchy, made the want of constitutional laws
be severely felt. Lycurgus, brother of Polydectes,
one of the kings of Sparta, a man distinguished alike
for his abilities and virtues, was invested, by the con-
curring voice of the sovereigns and people, with the
important duty of reforming and new-modelling the
constitution of his country, 884 a.c.
5. Lycurgus instituted a senate, elective, of twen-
ty-eight members ; whose office was to preserve a
just balance between the power of the kings and that
of the people. Nothing could come before the assem-
bly of the people which had not received the previous
consent of the senate; and, on the other hand, no
judgment of the senate was effectual without the
sanction of the people. The kings presided in the
senate, and had a double suffrage: they were the
generals of the republic : but in other respects then-
power was extremely limited. .They could plan no
enterprise without the consent of a council of the.
citizens, whose duty it was to watch over then-
measures.
C. Lycurgus bent his attention most particularly
to the regulation of manners ; and one great principle
pervaded his whole system —Luxury is the bane of
society.
He divided the territory of the republic into
39,000 equal portions, among the whole of its free
citizens.
He substituted iron money for gold and silver,
prohibited the practice of commerce, abolished all
useless arts, and allowed even those necessary to life
to be practised only by the slaves.
The whole citizens made their principal repast at
the public tables. The meals were coarse and parsi-
monious ; the conversation was fitted to improve thfc
youth in virtue, and cultivate the patriotic spirit.
The Spartan education rejected all embellishments
of the understanding. It nourished only the severer
virtues. It taught the duties of religion, obedience
to the laws, respect for parents, reverence for old age,
inflexible honour, undaunted courage, contempt of
danger and of death :—above all, the love of glory
and of their country.
7. But the general excellence of the institutions of
Lycurgus was impaired by many blemishes. The
manners of the Lacedaemonian women were shame-
fully loose, and they were the reproach of all Greece
for their immodesty. They frequented the baths, and
fought naked in the Palaestra promiscuously with the
men. Theft was part of the Spartan education.
Paternal or maternal tenderness seemed perfectly
unknown among this ferocious people, and' the youth
were taught to subdue the feelings of humanity ; the
slaves, or Helots, a neighbouring people of Pelopon-
nesus, whom they- had reduced to servitude, were
treated with the most barbarous rigour, and often
massacred for sport. The institutions of Lycurgus
had no other end than to form a nation of soldiers.
8. A material change in the constitution of Sparta
was made about 130 years after the death of Lycur-
gus, by the creation of a new magistracy under the
name of Ephori; they were five in number, and


elected annually by the people. They enjoyed a
similar but higher power than that of the tribunes of
the people of Rome. They were instituted at first
by the kings to control the influence of the senate,
hut they soon acquired a power paramount to that of
the kings and senate. They .even assumed the func-
tions of deposing and putting the kings to death.
The kings, on the other hand, plotted against the
Ephori, and often caused them to be murdered. These
contentions silently undermined the political fabric,
and ultimately caused its destruction.
A CHRISTMAS CAROL.
BY CHARLES DICKENS.
STAVE IV.—THE LAST OF THE SPIRITS.
The Phantom slowly, gravely, silently, approached. When it
came near him, Scrooge bent down upon his knee ; for in the
very air through which this Spirit moved it seemed to scatter
gloom and mystery.
It was shrouded in a deep black garment, which concealed
its head, its face, its form, and left nothing of it visible save
one outstretched hand. But for this it would have been
difficult to detach its figure from the night, and separate it
from the darkness by which it was surrounded.
He felt that it was tall and stately when it came beside
him, and that its mysterious presence filled him with a solemn
dread. He knew no more, for the Spirit neither spoke nor
moved.
“I am in the presence of the Ghost of Christmas Yet To
Come ?” said Scrooge.
The Spirit answered not, but pointed downwards with its
hand.
“You are about to show me shadows of the things that
have not happened, but will happen in the time before us,”
Scrooge pursued. “Is that so, Spirit?”
The upper portion of the garment was contracted for an
instant in its folds, as if the Spirit had inclined its head.
That was the only answer he received.
Although well used to ghostly company by this time,
Scrooge feared ftie silent shape so much that his legs trembled
beneath him, and he found that he could hardly stand when
he prepared to follow it. The Spirit paused a moment, as
observing his condition, and giving him time to recover.
But Scrooge was all the worse for this. It thrilled him
with a vague uncertain horror, to know that behind the dusky
shroud there were ghostly eyes intently fixed upon him, while
he, though he stretched his own to the utmost, could see
nothing but a spectral hand and one great heap of black.
“Ghost of the Future!” he exclaimed, “I fear you more
than any Spectre I have seen. But, as I know your purpose
is to do me good, and as I hope to live to be another man
from what I was, I am prepared to bear you company, and do
it with a thankful heart. Will you not speak to me ?”
It gave him no reply. The hand was pointed straight
before them.
“Lead on!” said Scrooge. “Lead on! The night is
waning fast, and it is precious time to me, I know. Lead-on,
Spirit!”
The Phantom moved away as it had come towards him.
Scrooge,followed in the shadow of its dress,-which bore him
up, he thought, and carried him along.
They scarcely seemed to enter the city; Tor the city rather
seemed to spring up about them, and encompass them of its
own act. But there they were, in the heart of it; on Change,
amongst the merchants; who hurried up and down, and
chinked the money in their pockets, and conversed in groups,
and looked at their watches, and trifled thoughtfully with
their great gold seals; and so forth, as Scrooge had seen them
often. - -
The Spirit stopped beside one little knot of business men.
Observing that the hand was pointed to them, Scrooge ad-
vanced to listen to their talk.
“ No,” said a great fat man with a monstrous chin, “ T don’t
know much about it, either way. I only know he’s dead.”
“ When did he die V' inquired another.
“ Last night, I believe.”
“Why, what was the matter with him?” asked a third,
taking a vast quantity of snuff out of a very large snuff-box.
“ I thought he’d never die.”
“ God knows,” said the first, with a yawn.
“ What has he done with his money ?” asked a red-faced
gentleman with a pendulous excrescence on the end of his
nose, that shook like the gills of a turkey-cock.
• “ I haven’t heard,” said the man with the large -chin,
yawning again. “Left it to his Company, perhaps. He
hasn’t left it to me. That’s all I know.”
This pleasantry was received with a general laugh.
“ It’s likely to be a very cheap funeral,” said the same
speaker ; “ for upon my life I don’t know of anybody to go
to it. Suppose we make up a party and volunteer ?”
“ I don’t mind going if a lunch is provided,” observed the
gentleman with the excrescence on his ndse. “ But I must
be fed, if I make one.”
Another laugh,
“ Well, I am'the most disinterested among you, after all,”
said the first speaker, “ for I never wear black gloves, and I
never eat lunch. But I’ll offer to go, if anybody else will.
When I come to think of it, I’m not at all sure that I wasn’t
his most particular friend ; for we used to stop and speak
whenever we met. Bye, bye !”
Speakers and listeners strolled away, and mixed with other
groups. Scrooge knew the men, and looked towards the
Spirit for an explanation.
The Phantom glided on into a street. Tts finger pointed to
two persons meeting. JScrooge listened again, thinking that
the explanation might lie here.
He knew these men, also, perfectly. They were men of
business : very wealthy, and of great importance. He had
made a point always of standing well in their esteem: in a
business point of view, that is ; strictly in a business point of
view.
“ How are you ?” said one.
“ How are you?” returned the other.
“Well!” said the first. “Old Scratch has got his own at
last,'hey ?”
“SoI am told,” returned the second. “ Cold, isn’t it ?”
“ Seasonable for Christmas time. You’re not a skaiter, I
suppose ?”
“No. No. Something else to think of. Good morning!”
Not another word. That was their meeting, their conver-
sation, and their parting.
Scrooge was at first inclined to be surprised that the Spifit
should attach importance to conversations apparently so
trivial; but feeling assured that they must have some hidden
purpose, he set himself to consider what it was most likely
to be. They could scarcely be supposed to have any bearing
on the death of Jacob, his old partner, for that was Past, and
this Ghost’s province was the Future. Nor could he think of
any one immediately connected with himself, to whom he
could apply them. But nothing doubting that to whomsoever
they applied, they had some latent moral for his own improve-
ment, he resolved to treasure up every word he heard, and
everything he saw ; and especially to observe the shadow of
himself when it appeared. For he had an expectation that
the conduct of his future self would give him the clue he
missed, and would render the solution of these riddles easy.
He looked about in that very place for his own image; but
another man stood in his accustomed corner, and though the
clock pointed to his usual time of day for being there, he saw
no likeness of himself among the multitudes that poured in
through the porch. It gave him little surprise, however; for
he had been revolving in his mind a change of life, and
thought and hoped he saw his new-born resolutions carried
out in this.
Quiet and dark, beside hinv stood the Phantom, with its
outstretched hand. When he roused himself from his thoughtful
quest, he fancied from the turn of the hand, and its situation
in reference to himself, that the Unseen Eyes were looking at
him keenly. It made'him shudder, and feel very co!d„
They left the busy scene, and went into an obscure part of
the town, where Scrooge had never penetrated before, although
he recognised its situation, and its bad repute. The ways
were foul and narrow ; the shops and houses wretched; the
people half-naked, drunken, slipshod, ugly. Alleys and arch-
ways, like so many cesspools, disgorged their offences of smell,
and dirt, and life, upon the straggling streets ; and the whole
quarter reeked with crime, with filth, and misery.
Far in this den of infamous resort, there was a low-browed,
beetling-shop, below a pent-house roof, where iron, old rags,
bottles, bones, and greasy offal, were bought. Upon the floor
within, were piled up heaps of rusty keys, nails, chains,
hinges, files, scales, weights, and refuse iron of all kinds.
Secrets that few would like to scrutinise were bred and hidden
in mountains of unseemly rags, masses of corrupted fat, and


sepulchres of bones. Sitting in among the wares he dealt in,
by a charcoal- stove, made of old bricks, was a gray-haired
rascal, nearly seventy years of age; who had screened himself
from the cold air without, by a frousy curtaining of miscel-
laneous tatters, hung upon a line; and.smoked his pipe in all
the luxury of calm retirement.
Scrooge and the Phantom came into the presence of this
man, just as a woman with a heavy bundle slunk into the
shop. But she had scarcely entered, when another woman,
similarly laden, came in too; and she was closely followed by
a man in faded black, who was no less startled by the sight of
them, than they had been upon the recognition of each other.
After a short period of blank astonishment, in which the old
man with the pipe had joined them, they all three burst into
a loud laugh.
“ Let the charwoman alone to be the first!” cried she who
bad entered first. “ Let the laundress alone to be the second;
and let the undertaker’s man alone to be the third. Look
liere, old Joe, here’s a chance! If we haven’t all three met
here without meaning it!”
“You couldn’t haVe met in a better place,” said old Joe,
removing his pipe from his mouth. “ Come into the parlour.
You were made free of it long ago, you know ; and the other
two an’t strangers. Stop till I shut the door of the shop.
Ah ! How it skreeksl There an’t such a rusty bit of metal
in the place as its own hinges, I believe; and I’m sure there’s
no such old bones here, as mine. Ha, ha! We’re all -suit-
able to our calling, we’re well matched. Come into the par-
lour. Come into the parlour.”
The parlour was the space behind the screen of rags. The
old man raked the fire together with an old stair-rod, and
having trimmed his smoky lamp (for it was night), with the
stem of his pipe, put it in his mouth again,
While he did this, the woman who had already spoken
threw her bundle on the floor and sat down in a flaunting
manner on a stool; crossing her elbows on her knees, and
iooking with a bold defiance at the other two.
“ W r hat odds then ! What odds, Mrs, Dilber ?” said the
woman. “ Every person has a right to take care of them-
selves. He always did!”
“ That’s true, indeed!” said the laundress. “No man
more so.”
“ Why, then, don’t stand staring as if you were afraid,-
woman ; who’s the wiser? We’re not going to pick holes in
each other’s coats, I suppose ?”
“ No, indeed !” said Mrs. Dilber and the man together.
“ We should hope not.*
“Very well, then !” cried the woman. “ That’s enough.
Who is the worse for the loss of a few things like these ? Not
a dead man I suppose.”
“ No, indeed,” said Mrs. Dilber, laughing.
“ If he wanted to keep ’em after he was dead, a wicked old
■screw,” pursued the woman, “ why wasn’t he natural in his
lifetime? If he had been, he’d have had somebody to look
after him when he was struck with Death, instead of lying
gasping out his last there, alone by himself.”
“ It’s the truest word that ever was spoke,” said Mrs.
Dilber. “ It’s a judgment on him.”
“ I wish it was a little heavier one,” replied the woman ;
“and it should have been, you may depend upon it, if I could
have laid my hands on anything else. Open that bundle, old
Joe, and let me know the value of it. Speak out plain, I’m
not afraid to be the first, nor afraid for them to see it. We
knew pretty well that we were helping ourselves, before we
met here, I believe. It’s no sin. Open the bundle, Joe.”
But the gallantry of her friends would not allow of this ; and
the man in faded black, mounting the breach first, produced his
plunder. It was not extensive. A seal or two, a pencil-case,
a pair of sleeve-buttons, and brooch of no great value, were all.
They were severally examined and appraised by old Joe, who
chalked the sums he was disposed to give for each upon the
wall, and added them up into a total when he found that there
was nothing more to come.
“That’s your account,” said Joe, “and I wouldn’t give
another sixpence, if I was to be boiled for not doing it. Who’s
next ?”
Mrs. Dilber was next. Sheets and towels, a little wearing
apparel, two old-fashioned silver teaspoons, a pair of sugar-'
and a few boots. Her account was stated on the wall
in the same manner.
“ I always give too much to ladies. It’s a weakness of
nvfic, and that’s the way I ruin myself,” said old Joe. “ That’s
your account. If you asked me for another penny, and make
?lan open question, I’d repent of being so liberal, and knock
ow half-a- crown.”
“And now undo my bundle, Joe,” said the first woman.
Joe went down on’ his knees for the greater convenience of
opening it, and having unfastened a great many knots, dragged
out a large and heavy roll of some dark stuff.
“ What do you call this ?” said Joe. “ Bed-curtains!”
“ Ah !” returned the woman, laughing and leaning forward
on her crossed arms. “ Bed-curtains !”
“ You don’t mean to say you took ’em down, rings aud all
with him lying there ?” said Joe.
“ Yes I do.” replied the woman. “ Why not?”
“You were born to make your fortune,” said Joe, “and
you’ll certainly do it.”
“ I certainly shan’t hold my hand, when I can get anything
in it by reaching it out, for the sake of such a man as lie was,
I promise you, Joe,” returned the Woman cooly. “ Don’t drop
that oil upon the blankets, now.”
“ His blankets ?” asked Joe.
“ Whose else’s do you think ?” replied the woman. “He
isn’t likely to take cold without ’em, 1 dare say.”
“ I hope he didn’t die of anything catching ? Eh ?” said
old Joe, stopping in his work, and looking up.
“ Don’t you be afraid of that/’ returned the woman. “ I
an’t so fond of his company that I’d loiter about him for such
things, if he did. Ah 1 You may look through that shirt till
your eyes ache; but you won’t find a hole in it, nor a thread -
bare place. It’s the best he had, and a fine one too. They’d
have wasted it, if it hadn’t been for me.”
“ What do you call wasting of it?” asked old Joe.
“ Putting it on him to be buried in, to be sure,” replied the
woman with a laugh. “ Somebody was fool enough to do it,
but I took it off again. If calico an’t good enough for such
a purpose, it isn’t good enough for anything. It’s quite as
becoming to the body. He can’t look uglier than he did in
that one.”
Scrooge listened to this dialogue in horror. As they sat
grouped about their spoil, in the scanty light afforded by the
old man’s lamp, he viewed them with a detestation and disgust,
which could hardly have been greater, though they had been
obscene demons, marketing the corpse itself.
“ Ha, ha!” laughed the same woman, when old Joe, pro-
ducing a flannel bag with money in it, told out their several
gains upon the ground. “This is the end of it, you see ! He
frightened every one away from him when he was alive, to
profit us when he was dead! Ha, ha, ha !”
“ Spirit I” said Scrooge, shuddering from head to foot. “ 1
see, I see. The case of this unhappy man might be my own.
My life tends that way, now. Merciful Heaven, what is this!”
He recoiled in terror, for the scene had changed, and now
he almost touched a bed : a bare, uncurtained bed: on which,
beneath a ragged sheet, there lay a something covered up,
which, though it was dumb, announced itself in awful language.
The room was very dark, too dark to he observed with any
accuracy, though Scrooge glanced round it in obedience to a
secret impulse, anxious to know what kind of room it was. A
pale light, rising in the outer air, fell straight upon the bed ;
and on it, plundered and bereft, unwatched, unwept, uncared
for, was the body of this man.
Scrooge glanced towards the Phantom. Its steady hand
was pointed to the head. The cover was so carelessly adjusted
that the slightest raising of it, the motion of a finger upon
Scrooge’s part, would have disclosed the face. He thought of
it, felt how easy it would be to do, and longed to do it; but had
no more power to withdraw the veil than to dismiss the spectre
at his side.
Oh cold, cold, rigid, dreadful Death, setup thine altar here,
and dress it with such terrors as thou bast at thy command : for
this is thy dominion! But of the loved, revered, and honoured
head, thou canst not turn one hair to thy dread purposes, or
make one feature odious. It is not that the hand is heavy
and will fall down when released; it is not that the heart and
pulse are still ; but that the hand was open, generous, and
true ; the heart brave, warm, and tender ; and the pulse a
man’s. Strike, Shadow, strike! And see his good deeds
springing from the wound, to sow the world with life immertal!
No voice pronounced these words in Scrooge’s ears, and yet
he heard them when he looked upon the bed. He thought, if
this man could be raised up now, what would be his foremost
thoughts? Avarice, hard dealing, griping cares ? They have
brought him to a rich end, truly !
He lay, in the dark empty house, with not a man, a woman,
or a child, to. say he was kind to me in this or that, and for
the memory of one kind word I will be kind to him. A cat
was tearing at the door, and there was a sound of gnawing rats
beneath the hearth-stone. What they wanted in the room of


death, and why they were so restless and disturbed, Scrooge
did not dare to think.
“ Spirit 1” he said, “ this is a fearful place. In leaving it, I
shall not leave its lesson, trust me. Let us go !”
Still the Ghost pointed with an unmoved finger to the head.
‘I understand you,” Scrooge returned, “ and 1 would do it,
if I could. But I have not the power, Spirit. I have not the
power.”
Again ft seemed to look upon him.
“ If there is any person in the town, who feels -emotion
caused by this man’s death,” said Scrooge quite agonized,
“ show that person to me, Spirit, I beseech you !”
The phantom spread its dark robe before him for a moment,
like awing ; and withdrawing it, revealed a room by daylight,
where a mother and her children were.
She was expecting some one, and with anxious eagerness
for she walked up and down the room ; started at every sound
looked out from the window ; glanced at the clock; tried, bui
in vain, to work with her needle; and could hardly bear the
voices of the children in their play.
At length the long-expected knock was heard. She hurried
to the door, and met her husband ; a man whose face was care-
worn and depressed, though he was young. There was a
remarkable expression in it now, a kind of serious delight ol
which he felt ashamed, and which he struggled to repress.
He sat down to the dinner that had been hoarded for him by
the fire ; and when she asked him faintly what news (which
was not until after a long silence,) he appeared embarrassed
how to answer.
“ Is it good,” she said, “ or bad ?”—to help him.
“ Bad,” he answered.
“ We are quite ruined?”
“ No. There is hope yet, Caroline.”
“If lie relents,” she said amazed, “there is! Nothing is
past hope, if such a miracle has happened.”
“He is past relenting,” said her husband. “He is dead.”
She was a mild and patient creature if her face spoke truth ;
but she was thankful in her soul to hear it, and she said so,
with clasped hands. She prayed forgiveness the next moment,
and was sorry ; but the first was the emotion of her heart.
“ What the half-drunken woman whom I told you of last
night, said to me, when I tried to see him and obtain a week’s
delay ; and what I thought was a mere excuse to ’avoid me ;
turns out to have been quite true. He was not very ill, but
dying, then.”
“ To whom will our debt be transferred ?”
“ I don’t know. But before that time we shall be ready
with the money ; and even though we were not, it would be
bad fortune indeed to find so merciless a creditor in his suc-
cessor. We may sleep to-night with light hearts, Caroline!”
Yes.- Soften it as they would, their hearts were lighter.
The children’s faces hushed, and clustered round to hear what
they so little understood, were brighter ; and it was a happier
house for this man’s death ! The only emotion that the
Ghost could show him, caused by the event, was one of
pleasure.
“ Let me see some tenderness connected with a death,” said
Scrooge ; or that dark chamber, Spirit, which we left just now,
will be forever present to me.”
The Ghost conducted him through several streets familiar to
his feet; and as they went along, Scrooge looked here and there
to find himself, but nowhere was he to be seen. They entered
poor Bob Cratchit’s house; the dwelling he had visited before ;
and found the mother'and the children seated round the
fire.
Quiet. Very quiet. The noisy little Cratchits were as still
as statues in one corner, and sat looking up at Peter, who had
a book before him. The mother and her daughters were en-
gaged in sewing. But surely they were very quiet!
“ ‘ And lie took a child, and set him in the midst of them.’”
Where had Scrooge heard those words ? He had not dreamed
them. The boy must have read them out, as he and the Spirit
crossed the threshold. Why did he not go on ?
The mother laid her work upon the table, and put her hand
up to her face.
“ The colour hurts my eyes,” she said.
The colour ? Ah, poor Tiny Tim !
“They’re better now again,” said Cratchit’s wife. “ It makes
them weak by candle-light; and I wouldn’t show weak eyes
to your father when he comes home, for the world. It must
be near his time.”
“ Past it rather,” Peter answered, shutting up his book.
“ But I think he’s walked a little slower than he used, these
few last evenings, mother.”
They were very quiet again. At last she said, and in a
steady cheerful voice, that only faultered once :
“ 1 have known him walk with—l have known him walk
with Tiny Tim upon his shoulder, very fast indeed.”
“ And so have I,” cried Peter. “ Often.”
“ And so have I!” exclaimed another. So had all.
“ But he was very light to carry,” she resumed, intent upon
her work, “ and his father loved him so, that it was no trouble
—no trouble. And there is your father at the door!”
She hurried out to meet him ; and little Bob in his com-
forter—he had need of it, poor fellow—came in. His tea was
ready for him on the hob, and they all tried who should help
him to it most. Then the two young Cratchits got upon his
knees and laid, each child a little cheek, against his face, as if
they said, “ Don’t mind it, father. Don’t be grieved !”
Bob was very cheerful with them, and spoke pleasantly to
all the family. He looked at the work upon the.table, and
praised the industry and speed of Mrs. Cratchit and the girls.
They would be done long before Sunday he said.
Sunday ! „You went to-day then, Robert.?” said his
wife.
“ Yes, my dear,” returned Bob. “ I wish you could have
gone. It would have done you good to see what kind of a
place it is. But you’ll see it often. I promised him that 1
would walk there on a Sunday. My little, little child !” cried
Bob. “My little child !”
He broke down all at once. He couldn’t help it. If he
could have helped it, he and his child would have been farther
apart perhaps than they were.
He left the room, an I went up stairs into the room above,
which was lighted cheerfully, and hung with Christmas. There
was a chair set close beside the child, and there were signs of
some one having been there, lately. Poor Bob sat down in it,
and when he had thought a little and composed himself, he
kissed the little face. He was reconciled to what had hap-
pened, and went down again quite happy.
They drew about the fire, and talked ; the girls and mother
working still. Bob told them of the extraordinary kindness of
Mr. Scrooge’s nephew, whom he had scarcely seen but once,
and who, meeting him in the street that day, and seeing that
he looked a little—“just a little down you know” said Bob,
enquired what had happened to distress him, “On which,”
said Bob, “for he is the pleasantest-spoken gentleman you
ever heard, I told him. ‘I am heartily sorry for it, Mr. ( rat-
chit,’ he said, * and heartily sorry for your good wife.’ By the
bye, how he ever knew that, I don’t know.”
“ Knew what, my dear?”
“ Why, that you were a good wife,” replied Bob.
“ Everybody knows that 1” said Peter.
“ Very well observed, my boy !” cried Bob. “ I hope they
do. * Heartily sorry,’ he said, ‘for your good wife. If I can
be of service to you in any way,’ he said, giving me his card,
‘ that’s where I live. Pi»ay come to me.’ Now, it wasn’t,”
cried Bob, “ for the sake of anything that he might be able
to do for us, so much as for his kind way, that this was quite
delightful. It really seemed as if he had known our Tiny Tim,
and felt with us.”
“ I’m sure he is a good soul!” said Mrs. Cratchit.
“ You would be sure of it, my dear,” returned Bob, “ if you
saw and spoke to him. I shouldn’t be at all surprised, mark
what I say, if he got Peter a better situation.”
“ Only hear that, Peter,” said Mrs. Cratchit.
“ And then,” cried one of the girls, “ Peter will be keeping
company with some one, and settingup for himself.”
“ Get along with you !” retorted Peter, grinning.
“ It’s just as likely as not,” said Bob, “ one of these days ;
though there’s plenty of time for that, my dear. But however
and whenever we part from one another, I am sure we shall
none of us forget poor Tiny Tim—shall we—or this first part-
ing that there was among us ?”
“ Never, father 1” cried they all.
“ And I know,” said Bob, “ I know, my dears, that when
we recollect how patient and how mild he was ; although he
was a little, little child ; we shall not quarrel easily among
ourselves, and forget poor Tiny Tim in doing it.”
“ No, never, father !” they all cried again.
“ I am very happy,” said little Bob, “ I am very happy!”
Mrs. Cratchit kissed him, his daughters kissed him, the two
young Cratchits kissed him, and Peter and himself shook
hands. Spirit of Tiny Tim, thy childish essence was from
God ! _ 1
“ Spectre,” said Scrooge, “ something informs me that
parting moment is at hand. I know it, but I know not hovA
Tell me what man that was whom we saw lying dead ?” •


The Ghost of Christmas Yet To Come conveyed him, as
before —though at a different time, he thought: indeed, there
seemed no order in these latter visions, save that they were in
the Future —into the resorts of business men, but showed him
not himself. Indeed, the Spirit did not stay for anything, but
went straight on, as to the end just now desired, until besought
by Scrooge to tarry for a moment.
“ This court,” said Scrooge, “ through which we hurry now,
is where my place of occupation is, and has been for a length
of time. I see the house. Let me behold what I shall be, in
days to come.”
The Spirit stopped ; the hand was pointed elsewhere.
“ The house is yonder,” Scrooge exclaimed. “ Why do you
point away?”
The inexorable finger underwent no change.
Scrooge hastened to the window of his office, and looked in.
It was an office still, but not his. The furniture was not the
same, and the figure in the chair was not himself. The Phan-
tom pointed as before.
He joined it once again, and wondering why ami whither he
had gone, accompanied it until he had reached an iron gate.
He paused to look round before entering.
A churchyard. Here, then, the wretched man whose name
he had now to learn, lay underneath the ground. It was a
worthy place. Walled in by houses; overrun by grass and
weeds, the growth of vegetation’s death, not life; choked up
with too much burying; fat with repleted appetite. A worthy
place!
The Spirit stood among the graves, and pointed down to
One. He advanced towards it trembling. The Phantom was
exactly as it had been, but he dreaded that he saw new meaning
in its solemn shape.
“ Before I draw nearer to that stone to which you point,”
said Scrooge, “ answer me one question. Are these the
shadows of the tilings that Will be, or are they the shadows of
the things that May be, only ?”
Still the Ghost pointed downward to the grave by which it
stood,
“ Men’s curses will foreshadow certain ends, to which, if
persevered in, they must lead,” said Scrooge. “ But if the
courses be departed from, the ends will change. Say it is thus
with what you show me !”
The Spirit was immovable as ever.
Scrooge crept towards it, trembling as he went; and follow-
ing the finger, read upon the stone of the neglected grave his
own name, Ebenezer Scrooge.
“ Am 1 that man who lay upon the bed ?” he Gried, upon
his knees.
The finger pointed from the grave to him, and back again.
“ No, Spirit! Oh no, no 1”
The finger still was there.
“ Spirit !” he cried, tight clutching at its robe, “ hear me !
lam not the man I was. I will not be the man I must have
been but for this intercourse. Wliy show me this, if I am
past all hope ?”
For the first time the hand appeared to shake.
“ Good Spirit,” he pursued, as down upon the ground he
fell before it: “ Your nature intercedes for me, and pities me.
Assure me that I yet may change these shadows you have
shown me, by an altered life !”
The kind hand trembled.
“ I will honour Christmas in my heart, and try to keep it all
the year. I will live in the Past, the Present, and the Future.
The Spirits of all Three shall strive within me. I will not
shut out the lessons that they teach. Oh, tell me I may sponge
away the writing on this stone !”
In his agony, he caught the spectral hand. It sought to
free itself, but he was strong in his entreaty, and detained itf
The Spirit, stronger yet, repulsed him.
Holding up his hands in one last prayer to have his fate
reversed, he saw an alteration in the Phantom’s hood and dress.
It and dwindled down into a bedpost.
Varieties.
Parting. —There in parting that softens the
heart; —it is as if we had never felt how unutterably dear a be-
loved object could be till we are about to lose it for ever.
Book-learned men seldom Lnow anything but books; and
there is one that never was printed yet, worth all they’ve got
on their shelves, but which they never read, nor ever so much
as cut the leaves of, for they don’t understand the hand-wri-
ting, and that btiok is human natur’. —Sam Slick.
Woman’s Influence on Society. —ln the history of every
age and nation, woman’s social condition affords the truest
estimate of the progress of civilization. Among savage tribes,
she is almost reduced to a level with the beasts of burden ; in
a somewhat more elevated state, she becomes an equal partici-
pant with her hardier companion in the drudgery of uncivilised
life; through numerous shades she thus proceeds onwards, till
she becomes enslaved to another passion of nature, that hardly
leaves her in a more enviable condition than that entailed by
her coarsest servitude. When at length she comes to be treated
as an intelligent being, her state receives the last and grandest
impulse to improvement, in the advancement of which, too,
is founded the more extended progress of the human race ;
for the reaction of the woman on civilisation is based upon her
conformation, her duties, and upon all the actual relations of
the social compact. Her acute sensibilities, her fine under-
standing and nice taste, when placed under the vigilant
dominion of a pure and enlightened philosophy, such as is
beautifully delineated in the Christian system, fit her for con-
trolling the destinies of men, and leading them towards intelli-
gence and peace. And when we behold her placed as the sole
and endeared guardian of his earliest years, when his young
mind and heart have to receive not merely their development,
but their bias and inclination, from the influence to which
they are exposed, is it too much to anticipate, from judicious
efforts to fit her better for the sacred duties nature thus
imposes on her, an amelioration for the human state? Is it
even too much, when it is confessed that the efforts hitherto
made in the largest and most influential classes of society
have been either altogether meagre, or almost entirely mis-
directed, to anticipate from a more correct and comprehensive
system, a greater advancement of society than may be
expected from any other cause V It has been for some time
the writer’s opinion, that more is to be hoped from the proper'
education of females of the middle and lower classes, by fitting
them for the all-important office of mothers, from leading
them to estimate themselves more as creatures of intellect
than of heart, discountenancing the present method, which
absorbs far too much of their best talents in accomplishments,
at most only adapted to adorn, in promoting the further
improvement of society, than from almost any other compati-
ble design ; which must plead an excuse for what he would
hope may not be an unprofitable, however much, at first
view, his readers may be disposed to consider it a speculative
digression.— Davis' Popular Manual of the Art of Preserving
Health.
Friendship. —Common friendship will admit of division.
One may love the beauty of this, the good humour of that per-
son, &c. But the friendship that possesses the whole soul,
and there rules and sways with an absolute sovereignty, can
admit of no rival. If two, at the same time, should call to
you for succour, to which of them would you run ? Should
they require of you contrary offices, how could you serve them
both ? Should one commit a thing to your secrecy that it
were of importance to the other to know, how would you dis-
engage yourself? The one particular friendship disunites
and dissolves all other obligations whatsoever. The secret I
have sworn not to reveal to any other, I may without perjury,
communicate to him,who is not another, but myself.— Memoriter
EXTRACTS FROM “ PUNCH.”
Cause and Effect. —A great fall of chalk occurred at
Mertsham on the Brighton Railway, on last Thursday morn-
ing ; a corresponding fall in milk took place in London on
the following day.
When does a, man have a vegetable time-piece?—When he
gets a potato clock ( Gets up-at-eight-o'clock).
What part of Saturn’s career reminds you of a gentleman
trying to pull on a pair of small boots?—The time when he
endeavoured to overcome the Titans (tight-uns).
Many parties who were at the Victoria on Monday night
occupied private boxes at the pawn-brokers’ on the evening
following.
A Lawsuit now pending in Tennessee between two families,
has run for such a length of time, that it takes six men of the
strongest memories in the State to remember when it was
begun.
“The force of Fancy could no Further Go.” —The
Times gives an extract from the Norwich Aurora, an American
paper, descriptive of a newly discovered cavern. The writer,
with a power of imagination almost marvellous, remarks,
“ The air in the cavern had a peculiar smell, resembling—
Nothing.” We believe that is the identical flavour of “ Leg
of Nothing and no turnips.”


The Moralist.
ANGER.
As the whirlwind in its fury teareth up trees, and deformeth
the face of nature, or as an earthquake in its convulsions over-
turneth whole cities; so the rage of an angry man throweth
mischief around him. Danger and destruction wait on his
hand.
But consider, and forget not thine own weakness ; so slialt
thou pardon the failings of others.
Indulge not thyself in the passion of anger ; it is whetting
a sword to wound thine own breast, or murder thy friend.
If thou bearest slight provocations with patience, it shall be
imputed unto thee for wisdom ; and if thou wipest them from
thy remembrance, thy heart shall not reproach thee.
Seest thou not that the angry man loseth his understand-
ing? Whilst thou art yet in thy senses, let the wrath of
another be a lesson to thyself.
Do nothing in a passion. Why wilt thou put to sea in the
violence of a storm.
H it be difficult to rule thine anger, it is wise to prevent it;
avoid therefore all occasions of falling into wrath; or guard
thyself against them whenever they occur.
A fool is provoked with insolent speeches, but a wise man
laugheth them to scorn.
Harbour not revenge in thy breast, it will torment thy
heart, and warp its best inclinations.
Be always more ready to forgive, than to return an injury :
be that watches for an opportunity of revenge, lieth in wait
against himself, and draweth down mischief on his own head.
A mild answer, to an angry man, like water cast upon the
fire, abateth his heat; and from an enemy he shall become
thy friend.
Consider how few things are worthy of anger, and thou wilt
wonder that any but fools should be wroth.
In folly or weakness it always beginneth ; but remember,
and be well assured, it seldom concludeth without repentance.
On the heels of folly treadeth shame: at the back of anger
standeth remorse.
MORAL MAXIMS.
ALPHABETICALLY ARRANGED.
No. 11.
A man’s own manners commonly frame his fortune.
A man’s strongest passion is generally on his weaker side.
A man, that breaks his word, bids others be false to him.
A man, that hath no virtue in himself, envietli it in others.
A man, that outlives his reputation, soon becomes miserable.
A man, without modesty, is lost to all sense of honor and
virtue.
Ambition is torment enough for an enemy.
Amendment is repentance.
A mischievous cur must be tied short.
A mittened cat never was a good mouser.
A moment of time is a monument of mercy.
Among the base, merit begets envy: among the noble,
emulation.
Human nature is like a bad clock. It may go right now and
then, or be made strike the hour, but its inward frame is to go
wrong. — Adaitf.
Gleams of Happiness. —There are times when, even with
the most anxious and sorrow-stricken, the heart seems to glow
with glad existence, and the bowed spirit to throw off its
crushing weight of care. Trials appear light. Disappoint-
ments are forgotten. Inquietude slumbers. The cheerfulness
of nature communicates itself to our spirits ; and all without
and all within speak «of renewed enjoyment and refreshed
existence. To many this feeling is peculiarly present on a
sunny morning in early spring. The bright green of the trees ;
the mild singing of the birds; the busy hum of animated
being which rises from glade, and coppice, and cottage-
garden, and hedge-row; the perfume of the flowers, and the
blossom of the trees; each and all tell the tale of living glad-
ness. With the balmy breath of morning the Deity is, as it
were, forced upon our recollection. Nature is his vast and
glorious sanctuary, and we adore him in the temple which he
himself has raised.
He that would write well, must follow the advice of Aris-
totle, speak as the common people speak, and think as the
wise think.
Select Poetry.
TREES CHARACTERISED.
The sailing pine; the cedar, proud and tall;
The vine-prop elm; the poplar, never dry;
The builder oak, sole king of forests all;
The aspern, good for staves; the cypress, funeral;
The laurel, meed of mighty conquerors
And poet’s sage ; the/r that weepeth still;
The willow, worn of hopeless paramours;
The yew, obedient <6 the bender’s will;
The birch for shafts ; the sallow for the mill ;
The myrrh, sweet bleeding in the bitter wound;
The warlike beech ; the ash, for nothing ill;
The fruitful olive, and the platane round ;
The carver holm ; the maple, seldom inward sound.
SPENSER.
OLD WINTER IS COME.
Old Winter is come in earnest —alack!
How icy and cold is he!
He cares not a pin for a shivering back,
He’s a saucy old chap to white and black,
He whistles his chills with a wonderful knack,
For a jolly old fellow is he !
A witty old fellow this Winter is,
A mighty old fellow of glee!
He cracks his jokes on the pretty sweet miss,
The wrinkly old maiden unfit to kiss,
And freezes the dew of their lips—for this
Is the way with such fellows as he.
Old Winter’s a frolicsome blade I wot —
He is wild in his humour, and free—
He’ll whistle along for the “ want of jthought,” f
And set all the warmth of our furs at nought,
And ruffle the laces the pretty girls bought;
For a frolicsome fellow is he!
Old Winter is blowing his gusts along,
And merrily shaking the tree !
From morning to night he will sing his song,
Now moaning and short—now howling and long, '
His Voice is loud, for his lungs are strong —
A merry old fellow is he !
Old Winter’s a wicked old chap, I ween—
As wicked as ever you’ll see!
He withers the flowers so fresh and green,
And he bites the pert nose of the miss of sixteen,
As she flippantly walks in maidenly sheen—
A wicked old fellow is he !
Old Winter’s a tough old fellow for blows,
As tough as ever you’ll see ;
He’ll trip up our trotters and rend our clothes,
And stiffen our limbs from fingers to toes —
He minds not the cry of his friends or his foes —
A driving old fellow is he!
A cunning old fellow is Winter, they say,
A cunning old fellow is he! .
He peeps in the crevices day by day,
To see how we’re passing our time away,
And marks all our doings from grave to gay—
I’m afraid he is peeping at me.
—London Paper. *
THE RULING PASSION: VANITY.
U Odious ! in woollen ! * ’twould a saint provoke,”
Were the last words, that poor Narcissa spoke :
“ No ! let a charming chintz, and Brussels-lace,
Wrap my cold limbs, and shade my lifeless face,
One would not, sure, look ugly when one’s dead!
And —Betty!—give this cheek a little red!”
POPE.
* Until within these few years, a law was in force, in Eng-
land, enacting that every corpse should be buried in wool: no
doubt with a view to encourage the staple commodity.


Jtotice.
The Editor does not hold himself responsible for x the opinions and
assertions contained in the correspondence and contributions in-
serted in the Colonial Literary journal.
Notice to ©orresponttcrtts.
In reply to “ Frederick’s” last communication—We had no inten-
tion to discourage his efforts. His creditable compositions will be
received by us with much pleasure.
“ Memoriter’s” Poetical Extracts have been received and, ap-
proved.
All communications must be addressed to “ The Editor of the
Colonial Literary Journal, General Printing Office, 133,
King-street East," (post paid.)
police to @otmirp Subscribers.
Subscribers in the Country are requested to forward their names
and subscriptions to the nearest Agents, where no Agent has,
as yet, been appointed in their immediate neighbourhood; as
'the expense of postage of d letter to the Publishers in Sydney,
is a considerable encroachment upon the very slender amount
of a Quarterly Subscription.
Subscribers are informed that as back Nos. cannot go through
the Post, they must inform us by what means the earlier Nos.
are to be forwarded to them without expense to the Publishers.
In answer to complaints of non-delivery of Papers, he can only
say that the Nos. have been regularly inserted in the Post
Office to their respective directions.
ON ELECTRICITY.
Electricity , like heat, is to be found in every portion
of matter under the sun. This latent power was first
discovered in the exhibition of the attractive powers
of amber, whence arose the word electricity—electrum
being the Latin word for amber. When a piece of
amber or sealing-wax is well rubbed with a dry
woollen cloth, a warmth may be felt in it, and any
light substance, such as a feather, or a piece of sew-
ing-silk, brought near, will be attracted thereby,
and rapidly advance towards it ; but this power of
atti action will not be retained by the amber and
wax without renewed friction •, thus proving that
electricity is both manifested and excited by heat.
The simple discovery of the electric power given by
friction, was the first step or groundwork to the
knowledge of the stupendous and magnificent power
of electricity. The silk, Or' feather, when thus
attracted, do not,remain in conjunction with the wax
or amber, but will dart off again with the same spqed
as m approaching them. The wax and amber also
shew a decided objection to the retention of the
attracted parties. The manifestation of this repulsion
discovered to observers that there exists in every
substance two kinds of electricity. They are called
positive and negative. While the two kinds remain
unexcited in any body or substance, they lie dormant,
but the electrifying or exciting them consists in dis-
turbing this unseen arrangement. If then by friction
we excite the power of attractiqn, electricity of one
kind is given, and the other received, while each body
having but its own opposite, which kept it quiet by
its presence, is constantly seeking a return of it, and
will attract it from any surrounding object until it
regains sufficient to support the natural equilibrium :
w ien this is attained, the excitement or electricity is
pi o e exhausted. Now, although every substance
in nature becomes electrified by friction, some sub-
stances, such as a bar of iron, or the human body,
jyi?l !T CGlve the dement over the whole surface, and
i is tnen carried oft to the earth and all surrounding
objects. Such substances are called conductors of
Jectncity— that is, they pass it forward from them-
selves to other bodies, which, in their turn, carry it
farther, until it becomes exhausted, or meets with a
substance that will attract it into itself. Water and
air are also conductors, but metals are far the most
powerful. Wax is not a conductor, therefore, when
it is excited by friction, it will attract a non-excited
body towards itself—that is, such light bodies as can
by their freedom of motion approach the wax. This
action is sometimes seen in the clouds. When a
highly electrified cloud hovers over the surface of the
earth, the earth becomes excited, is in an opposite
electric state, and consequently attracts the electricity
from the cloud. The power of electricity is always
in proportion to the degree of friction exercised on
the object. This is proved by the artificial produc-
tion of its appearance on the machines made for the
purpose. There are two forms of electrifying ma-
chines ; the one has a glass cylinder, the other has a
circular glass plate ; in both instances the electric
fluid is produced by the friction of the glass against
cushions made for that purpose. The glass being
turned rapidly round by a handle, becomes heated
and electrified.
Friction is not the only method used for the de-
velopement of electricity. One Galvani, an Italian
philosopher, discovered that two pieces of metal placed
together, and separated only by a degree of moisture,
evinced an electric excitement; they had each parted
with a portion of their properties, part of the positive
passing out of the one, part of the negative out of the
other ; both metals thus becoming electrified ; but the
power of this electric excitement was very feeble.
Shortly after this, Volta, another celebrated philo-
sopher, who had examined and admired Galvani’s
suggestion, improved the process by filling up the
spaces between the two metal plates (one of which was
copper, the other zimc,) with a diluted acid fluid ; this
acid fluid excited more strongly the electric power in
both plates of metal. It was afterwards found that
by adding copper wire to the plates, the electric fluid
could by their conduction be conveyed to any dis-
tance. An instrument, or rather apparatus, was then
constructed, upon Volta’s plan, and it was found to
produce the same electricity as the machine which I
have mentioned, with an ability of manifesting con-
siderably more in quantity and strength. This ap-
paratus was called, in honour of Volta, “ The Voltaic
battery, but the method of collecting electricity by
the voltaic battery, and all other processes of pro-
curing it by the action of acids on metals, is now
called galvanism , in honour of Galvani, who was the
original discoverer.
The modern established theory of electricity sup-
poses that wherever electricity is made sensible, it is
owing to the separation of the positive and negative
electric fluids. As it was Dr. Franklin who gave
these names to the different states observed in elec-
tricity, (as may be found in his biography) it may be
useful to trace the meaning of the terms to the sources
from whence this great philosopher derived them.
The term positive he used to express the state of a
being who or which receive additional electricity into
his system ; and however the term chosen by him may
have been inadequate to express the thing signified,
it was his intention to denote a state, not a diversity
of matter, the being having become possessed of more
than his natural quantity of electric effluvia, was
said to be positively electrified, and the object from


which it was received possessed less than his natural
portion, and was said to be negatively electrified. He
further illustrates it by calling the one 'plus, the other
minus, and as a certain portion seems to be necessary
for all substances, when any of that portion is
attracted from one towards another, the first will seek
its return to restore its own equilibrium.
Franklin was also the. first who proved the identity
of the electric fire, and that of lightning. It is re-
corded of him that on this important occasion he took
with him his son into a field, where he sent up a
silken kite with an iron point at the top, and a key
attached to the cord, when he drew from a passing
thunder-cloud sufficient electric fire to yield sensible
sparks from the key. It is said that on the instant
discovery of this important fact, he actually leaped
for joy, and clapping his hands together, exclaimed,
“ I shall be immortalised!”.
The principle above stated of plus and minus elec-
tricity, as opposed to that of different kinds, seems
more in accordance with ascertained facts, and more
suitable to'reasonable observation. For myself, I can
truly say that from my youth upwards, the diversity
of kind in the electric fluid has been as a dark spot
in the glorious light of philosophical attainments,
until I read, some few years back, the simple state-
ment of Franklin’s notions on the subject.
B.
PHRENOLOGY.
[For the Colonial Literary Journal.]
No. VIII.
The Aboriginal cranium appears to be large, although
in reality the brain is not so. The uncommon thick-
ness of the skull and the integuments surrounding
it, accounts for this ; and the strength of the Abori-
ginal head-piece in resisting the most powerful blows
of their waddy is well known. This indeed, seems
to be their invulnerable part, and a stroke upon it,
has as little influence as upon a block of wood. Pro-
verbial expressions have had their origin in common
sense, and the epithets thick-liead, block-head, have
been bestowed with a considerable degree of point
and shrewdness.
The great preponderancy of brain in the New
Hollander, as in all savage nations, lies in the pos-
terior parts of the head—the seat of the passions, and
inferior sentiments; the moral and intellectual por-
tions, with few exceptions, are very deficient. One
of the most striking instances in which the develope-
ment of the brain of the Aborigines harmonizes with
their actual character, is in the deficiency of the organ
of Constructiveness. The locality of this* organ, on
the temple, almost invariably presents a contracted
and hollow appearance. It is principally to the want
of constructive ingenuity, and mechanical genius in
the Aborigines, that their inferiority as a people, and
their degraded character, ‘(more so. indeed than is
just,) are owing. The most barbarous and uncivi-
lized people ever known, far surpass them in this
respect. We are all acquainted with their wretched
substitute for a habitation —a gunyah composed of
three forked sticks about the height of a man, stuck
into the ground at short distances, and with their
pronged extremities interlocking at the top, covered
over in the most careless way with the pliant bark of
the tea-tree ! With a fire burning at the entrance,
or rather open side, of this half-cone, and himself
stretched in the form of a crescent, on some tattered
skins, within it, the savage tenant of this rude do-
micile enjoys the luxury of sleep as much as, and
perhaps more, than does the pian of wealth in his
lordly dome, reposing on his couch of eider-down.
But not even this trifling trouble is undertaken,
should Nature have happily formed any chance covert
near their place of encampment. A projecting rock,
or the dense foliage of some of the Australian trees,
is gladly resorted to for shelter, as sparing any ex-
ertion which would otherwise need to be made. We
cannot but regard them with pity and commisera-
tion, and feel our hearts overflowing with gratitude
for our own comforts and conveniences, when—instead
of the noble and stately fabric that spreads its giant
wings to the wind, and bears hundreds of living souls
within its capacious bosom, formed to trac.k the
mighty waste of waters, and to reduce even the im~
mensity of the ocean in some degree under the power
of man —or the steam-vessel which speeds on its track
like a living thing, regardless of the wind and wea-
ther, impelled by that wonderful and magnificent
invention, one of the greatest achievements of the
genius of man —we behold gliding along the placid
bosom of the beauteous Australian rivers and lagoons
of limpid-azure hue, and fringed with the richest
emerald bloom, the frail canoe, composed of a single
sheet of bark, with the ends tied up and crammed
with clay, and the sides extended by a stick thrust
carelessly between, capable of containing hardly more
than three persons, who are compelled to preserve an
exact equilibrium, as the least awkward movement
would capsize the wretched shallop. The greatest
stretch of constructive skill among the Aborigines is
displayed in making their weapons of warfare. The
talent of constructing will always, if the mind is
allowed to follow its own bias, be employed in what
is most congenial to the feelings of the constructor ;
and in this instance the Aborigines only imitate the
custom of . all barbarous nations. We have already
mentioned that the propensities are all largely deve-
loped in their cranium ; and Destructiveness and
Combativeness may be pointed out in particular—
and indeed situated as they are, war must of necessity
be one of their principal pursuits. Their character
in this respect is however greatly modified by their
very large developement of the organ of Caution,
both in their head and character ; their timidity
indeed is very remarkable, and particularly so when
contrasted with their warlike habits.
It is a very common error, to suppose that they
have well developed fore-heads—the contrary, how-
ever, is undeniably the case, though an inexperienced
person would be very apt to make such a mistake.
An instance of this error occurred some time ago at
a debate in the hall of the School of Arts, upon the
question, “ Whether the doctrine of Phrenology is
true or not?” In reply to some observations made by
one of the debaters, contrasting the developement of
the head of the Aborigines with their character, a
gentleman rose up and stated that he had been struck
with what he considered their exceedingly well de-
veloped foreheads. The fallacy of this is easily
shown. The forehead consists of two divisions, the
upper and lower—the upper including the reflective
faculties, and the lower the perceptive. The latter
are in truth very largely developed in the Abcrigina


skull, which. I hope to be able to show is in perfect
conformity with their character ; but the former are
deficient, the forehead receding rapidly, The promi-
nency of the organs, immediately over the eyes, will
be remembered by those who have taken notice of
their forehead ; and in particular, we shall notice the
prominence of the organ of Locality, with Indivi-
duality. A large developement of the former will
give the talent of remembering places, also of enabling
its possessor to track his way through localities to
which he is a partial and even entire stranger. The
skill of the Aborigines in this respect is well known,
and it is an instance of the wise dispensation of Pro-
vidence, that they should be endowed with a faculty,
a high degree of which is indispensably necessary to
them in their peculiar, mode of life. A great deve-
lopement of Locality also inspires the love of roaming
from one place to another, and an aversion to any
fixed place of residence. How remarkably does this
agree with the character of the New Hollander ! It
is one of their greatest failings that they possess so
much of this locomotive propensity ; there is no con-
sideration which can induce them to remain any length
of time in one place, and this has actually become a
passion with them, so much so indeed, that the Aus-
tralian tribes make periodical migrations to different
localities. There is no doubt that this arose at first
from necessity, being compelled to shift their habi-
tations in search of food ; but that their passion for
roaming exists, , independently of any extraneous
influence, is undeniable, for, when-individual-natives
have been placed in situations where their wants were
supplied, and themselves in possession of comforts to
which they had been strangers, they have invariably
deserted all these enjoyments and returned to their
savage brethren, again to chase the nimble-footed
kangaroo over the flower-enamelled plains of their
country. We mentioned that their organ of Indivi-
duality was large—hence their surprising talent for
observation. The accuracy with which they follow
the track of any object has surprised many, and is
usually ascribed to their excellent eye-sight, but this
is very superficial inference, the real cause lies in
their large developement of the faculty of Individu-
ality* brought to great perfection.by constant exercise.
Time is much more largely developed in their fore-
head than Tune—hence their comparative skill in
the modulations of time displayed in their grotesque
dances and corrobories, and the almost total want of
any thing like melody in the discordant noises which
form their national music. Ideality, as in all bar-
barous nations, is very poorly developed, as may be
supposed. Yet there is no race so savage as not to
possess some fragments of song, and the Aborigines
possess poets too, among themselves. The black swan
o Australia is not however, as Dr. Lang asserts, a
very musical bird ; that it may become so at no dis-
tant period seems to be likely, though not in the
persons of the original natives of the soil.
It will be seen by the foregoing sketch of the
Aboriginal character, that though inferior in the great
endowments of the mind, the New Hollander is yet
capable of improvement; and there rests a great load
of responsibility on the heads of those who pride
themselves on their superiority both mental and phy-
sical, yet never stretch their hand to bestow on the
neglected Aborigines of the soil one iota of that talent
w as k een given to them for proper use—and
what more proper than in communicating a portion
of their enlightenment to their benighted and savage
brethren ? The apathy and indifference of the colo-
nists to the weal of the Aborigines calls forth virtuous
indignation ; the religious missions formed for con-
veying the gospel to them, have all failed from the
absence of that support, which it is the duty of every
Christian community to give, and which it is the
eternal disgrace of the Australian public that they
have hitherto withheld.
ÆNEAS.
MR. RAE’S THIRD LECTURE ON THE GENIUS
AND CHARACTER OF BURNS.
The purport of Mr. Rae’s third lecture, delivered on Monday
evening the 19th ultimo, was principally a vindication of the
poet from the critical aspersions of Lord Jeffrey, the Edinburgh
reviewer.
Referring to the substance of his former lectures, and ex-
pressing the gratification afforded him by the crowded and
attentive audiences that assembled on the two former occasions,
the lecturer proceeded in this lecture to state that —fully sen-
sible of the responsibility incurred by him in his treatment of
the present topic—it was “ not as a critic, but merely as an
illustrator and vindicator,” that he now appeared. “ The
character and genius of our great national poet,” said Mr.
Rae, “ has been grossly attacked, and I esteem it as a sacred
duty to endeavour by all rational means to clear the character
of Burns from these imputations, before I can expect vou to
listen with patience to any remarks on his writings.”
The lecturer, in the mean time, acknowledged and com-
mented upon several communications he had received since
his last lecture; and in noticing one communication which
cal ledin "question his remarks on the superiority which he
claimed “ for the Scottish peasantry in point of education over
those of the sister islands,” the lecturer admitted the amor
patrice might have slightly influenced him, but asserted that
his “remarks were intended to apply to the condition of the
peasantry in the time of Burns,” and that his « intention was
hot to draw invidious comparisons, hut to show, from the
general intelligence and education of the order to which Burns
belonged, that there was no reason to regard him as a prodigy
—and that his knowledge of the English language and of
mankind was not received by intuition.”
Mr. Rae proceeded “ to an examination of the strictures on
Burns’ character which appeared in the Edinburgh Review,
January, 1809.”
“ Few men,” said the lecturer, “ and still fewer poets have
been so much calumniated during their lives and after their
deaths as Robert Burns. It is not my intention to enter fully
on a refutation of the calumnies that have proceeded from the
common herd of scribblers, who had not the talent to discover
the native beauties of our bard, but possessed a sufficient stock
of malevolence and impertinence to fit them for the task of
accusing him of faults that were repugnant to his character
both as a poet and a man. The slime of their pitiful accu-
sations has long since been washed away into oblivion by the
flood of generous feeling that has been on the increase since ever
the tears of the public were shed on his untimely grave. But
there are slanderers of a different grade that cannot be passed
by like the idle wind which we respect not: for when such a
man as Lord Jeffrey stoops from his pride of place to join
issue with the common herd of calumniators, it is necessary to
pause, and enquire on what grounds he has formed his opinions:
to ask ourselves the question, whether it be possible for the
great star of the Edinburgh Review—for the leader of the public
taste in letters for once to be wrong in his judgment of poetry.


“ ‘ Assuredly ’ says Coleridge ‘ that criticism of Shakspeare
will alone be genial which is reverential. The Englishman
who, without reverence, can utter the name of William Shak-
speare, stands disqualified for the office of critic.’ Fully and
heartily do I concur with this sentiment in every particular,
and applying it to our present purpose, I think we may say
with equal truth that that criticism of Burns will alone be
genial that is reverential. lam not so foolish as to draw a
comparison between Shakspeare and Burns. With all my
Scottish prejudices—with all my love and veneration for the
genius oF our native bard, I will venture to say that no man
can admire the mighty dramatist of England more sincerely-
than I. Shakspeare and Burns —though both of them poets
of nature’3 own making—are in numerous points widely dis-
similar ; but they differ from one another as one star differs
from another star in glory. Shakspeare could no more have
written Tam O'Shanter, than Burns could have written Othello
or Lear. Shakspeare and Burns are each at the head of his
respective class—poets whom nature produces only at long
intervals—comets that visit our earth only to dazzle and astonish
the eyes of the beholders at intervals of centuries—and it would
be unwise and absurd to force them from the sphere where
they shine with such surpassing dignity to one which neither
of them was desirous or qualified to fill.
“ Criticism” continued Mr. Rae “is too commonly considered
a cold and chilling business. It is regarded by many, simply
as the science of finding fault. Individuals in our own days,
who rejoice in the name of critics, are too fond of taking a
station above the object of their criticism, and looking down
with all the complacency of self-constituted judges on a being
so far beneath them as Robert Burns ! I have no patience
with such presumption. The true critic is forward ‘to dis-
cern what is beautiful; to seize eagerly on every touch of
genius with the sympathy of kindred affection; and in the
secret consciousness of a congenial inspiration, to share in
some measure the triumph of the artist.’ He dwells more
on the beauties than the faults of a writer. The beauties of
the genuine poet are frequently more difficult to be discovered
than his faults. The former are often deeply hid and percep-
tible only to congenial spirits; while the latter as frequently
float on the surface, and are apparent to all. It is the duty of
the critic to clear away the dross with a gentle hand, and to
dig deeply and patiently for the golden ore that glitters
beneath. Your sharp-sighted critic is not willing to give
himself so much unnecesssary trouble. He jumps to a conclu-
sion, and if he do not discover the writer’s beauties at a glance,
he is apt to believe that no beauties exist. But he is bound in
honour to say something to show his talents, and as he is
incapable of saying anything favourable, why the conclusion is
obvious that he must expend his rhetoric in gilded common-
places, and round his periods, and give point to his antithesis
by a plentiful mixture of harmless abuse. We know however
that it is quite as possible for the critic to be mistaken in his
judgment, as for the poet to err in praise.’'
The lecturer here quoted Pope’s Essay on Criticism, and
continued—“ The critic whose sole pleasure consists in sifting
the productions of genius for little failings—which win be
found in all human productions—and on these failings
with malignant pleasure, is worthy of the reward which Apollo
bestowed on one of this tribe —who was required to separate
the chaff from the wheat in a sack of grain, and was rewarded
with the chaff for his pains.” “Let it not be supposed
that in presumptuously attempting to refute the strictures of
Jeffrey, I have any wish to measure my dwarfish weapons with
those of this gigantic reviewer. I honor him as a critic—l
admire him as a man of exquisite taste. I believe that he has
done as much for the cause of literature in my native country
as any other man of the age. I remember the time when his
sentences were oracular to me. I implicitly believed what he
said, just because he said it, and because I seldom discovered
him saying any thing amiss. But I now believe it possible
even for Jeffrey to err. 1 believe that he erred egregiously in
some of the remarks I am to lay before you, and if the proofs
were not before my eyes, Jeffrey was the last man in the world
whom I could have considered capable of entertaining one
haish thought towards his poor but gifted countryman, or
likely to breathe a single syllable that could tend in any
measure to tarnish the polished leaves of the holly, which
Coila, the Muse of Scotland, bound round the brows of her
ploughman minstrel boy as he sat alone, ‘ half-mad, half-fed,
half-sarkit,’ in the ‘ auld clay biggin’—immortalised by the
meeting of the minstrel and the muse.” Here Mr. Rae recited
part of Burns’ ‘ Vision .’
Having quoted in full the lecturer’s preamble, it will be
apparent to our readers that—however unwilling we maybe to
omit a few additional quotations which we at first intended to
insert our space will not allow us (beyond one other quotation)
to do much more than assert that, on most of the points in the
review in question examined by Mr. Rae, we consider he
fully vindicated—by much collateral and cotemporary evidence,
and the recital of numerous extracts—the writings of his poet
from the charges of the reviewer, as regards—Burns’ situation
being favourable to the development of great poetical talents
—his want-of originality—his epigrams and lampoons coarse,
violent, and contemptible for want of wit and brillancy—and
the harshness, and acrimony of his satires and general
invective.
Referring to Jeffrey’s charge against the poet, of want of
originality, in consequence of his acquaintance with his native
bards and the models of antiquity, we must quote part of Mr.
Rae’s remarks pertinent to the point.—•“ But before I can
give credence to such a doctrine, I must believe that those
painters and sculptors, who have had most opportunities of
gazing on the imperishable productions of the artists of anti-
quity, have sat down in despair, and allowed others who never
have been so favoured, to be the original and only painters and
sculptors of modern times. All experience goes to prove that
the reverse of this is the truth. The painter, or the sculptor,
who gazes on the Transfiguration or the Apollo Relvidere, ’till
almost blind with their majesty and beauty, does not neces-
sarily from that moment cease to be an inventor or an original
thinker. No : he snatches
From the ashes of his sires,
The embers of their former fires—
He sees lines of beauty and lineament of grace in those
acknowledged standards of excellence, which he might never
otherwise have dreamed of—and if a spark of genius be in
him, these standards will but fan the fires, and give additional
energy to his inventive powers. Are we to be told that the
study of the ancient poets tends to destroy all originality in the'
student ? Was Milton any the worse as a poet —or less ori-
ginal as a thinker —from his extended study? Because we
aHow our imagination to run riot among the beautiful creations
of the bards of Greece and Rome, or those loved ones of tha
olden time in our own country, does it necessarily follow, that
such extended .study is hostile to poetical invention ? By the
memory of Burns—and of all the sweet singers of antiquity—
it is not so.”
Mr. Rae here continued his recital of Pope’s Essay on Criticism,
and proceeded—“ Such is the language which the young poet
employs, as he glows with fervour at the inspiring strains of
those mighty masters whom he holds up to himself as models
of imitation ; and instead of 'with-drawing from the contest in


despair, his imagination is roused and kindled at their fires,
and he exclaims with humility, but not without hope—
O may some spark of your celestial fire,
The least—the meanest—of your sons inspire
That on weak wings from far pursues your flights,
Glows while he reads, but trembles as he writes.
And can we suppose that Burns lost any of his originality
from studying such works as we have enumerated ?”
“ No one who is acquainted with the songs of Burns—the
most immortal part of his writings—can fail to acknowledge
the great obligations he was under to those exquisite old songs
of his countrymen, written, according to Jeffrey, with more
tenderness, nature, and feeling than any other lyric compo-
sitions that are extant. His love indeed for these ballads
instead of detracting from the originality of his lyrics, was the
principal cause of their having been written at all.”
Mr. Rae concluded by stating that he found it impossible to
condense his reiparks within the limits of one other lecture,
and intimated his intention to devote an additional lecture to
the conclusion of his examination of the strictures of the
Edinburgh Reviewer.
Mr. Justice Burton. —We have just been favored
with a view of Mr. Griffith’s full size portrait of Mr.
Justice Burton ; and, from our own of its
merits, we feel satisfied that the friends of the worthy-
judge will have good reason to congratulate them-
selves on having secured the services of this talented
artist. As a colonial production, we shall, in our
next, give a more accurate critique of this splendid
painting.
Debates. —We are glad to find that a debating
class has been formed, in connexion with the Sydney
Mechanics’ School of Arts. It meets in the theatre
of the institution every "Wednesday evening, at half-
past seven o’clock.
Appointments.— His Excellency the Governor has
appointed William Montagu Manning, Esq., Barrister-
at-law, to be Solicitor-General of New South'Wales,
during the employment of William a’Beckett, Esq.,
as one of the Judges of the Supreme Court, or until
Her Majesty’s pleasure shall be known. His Ex-
cellency has also appointed William Verner, Esq., to
be Chief Commissioner for Insolvent Estates for the
district of Port Phillip.
Fancy Dress Ball. —Active preparations are on
foot for a second Fancy Dress Ball, the expense of
which is to be defrayed by subscription. A Com-
mittee has already been formed for the purpose of
issuing tickets, and there is every likelihood of the
second ball equalling the first in magnificence and
attraction.
Sensible Doctor. —A handsome young widow applied to
a physician to relieve her of three distressing complaints with
which she was afflicted. “In the first place,” said she, “I
have little or no appetite. What shall I take for that,
Doctor?” “For that, Madam, you shall take air and exer-
cise.” “And Doctor, lam quite fidgetty at night, and afraid
to lie alone. What shall I take for that Doctor?” “For that
I can only recommend that you shall take—a—husband.”.
“ Fie, Doctor. But I have the blues terribly. What shall I
take for that?” “For that, Madam, you have, besides taking
air, exercise, and a husband, to take—the newspaper.” Sen-
sible doctor that.— American Paper .
COMMERCIAL REVIEW.
Commercial transactions of the past week do not call for any
particular comment, the sales effected have been very trivial.
Sugar has advanced £1 per ton, and a further rise may he
expected.
Tobacco. —Good samples are scarce and in demand, a large
proportion of the stock in bond is of inferior quality, and would
not realize the duty. Advices have been received from Hobart
Town of the arrival of the barque America, from Boston, with
Tobacco, &c.; part of which will probably be sent on to this
market.
Wheat. —This market remains steady without any signs of
improvement discernible, owing to the abundant supply kept
up from Van Dieman’s Land; upwards of 10,000 bushels have
arrived per Diana, and William, a portion of which has been
disposed of at 4s. per bushel, cash.
Flour. —There is no alteration in the price of this article.
In other articles of colonial produce no alteration from
former quotations has occurred worthy of note.
B. S. LLOYD
Commission Agent, Bridge-street.
September 4tb, 1844.
“ The Chinese, in writing, use no pens, but pencils made of
the hair of some animal, commonly a rabbit! This pencil
they hold not obliquely r as painters do ; but perpendicularly,
as if they would prick the paper. They write not from the
left hand to the right as we, nor from the right to the left as
the Hebrews; but on lines from the top of the leaf to the
bottom, beginning at the right hand. The Chinese paper is
not made of silk, as is commonly supposed, but of the inward
bark of Bambu and several other trees ; and is remarkable,
not only that they can make it into sheets of extraordinary
size, but also, that after it hath been written on and worn to
pieces, they can work it over again, and from the scraps make
new paper. The Chinese paper hath a beautiful silken gloss.
but it is thin, brittle, and not at all durable. Their ink’
(which is known in Europe by the name of Indian ink) is
made of lamp black, the best of which is got by burning old
pines. They mix perfumes with it to correct the smell.
These ingredients are worked into the consistence of paste,
which is put into wooden moulds of the shape they would have
it. The Chinese standish is a little polished marble, with a
hollow at one end to contain water ; in this they dip their stick
of ink and then rub it on the smooth part of the marble. The
pencil, paper, ink, and marble, are called by the Chinese, * the
four precious things;’ which they pique themselves on keeping
very neat. Everything which relates to letters is so reputable
in China, that even the making of ink is not reckoned a
mechanic employment.” —Scrap Book.
Origin of the Term “ Muslin.”— The city of Mosul, for-
merly the capital of Mesopotamia, stands upon the right or
western bank of the Tigris, opposite to the site of ancient
Nineveh. “All those cloths of silk or gold which we, the
Venetians (says Marco Paolo) call muslins, are of the manu-
facture of Mosul.” It is not improbable that the city of
Mosul, being at that time one of the greatest entrepots of
Eastern commerce, may have given the appellation to various
productions of the loom, conveyed from thence to the Medi-
terranean.
Possibility. —Those things are to be held possible, which
are to be done by some person, though not by every one; and
which may be done by many, though not by any one ; and
which may be done in succession of ages, though not within
the hour glass of one man’s life; and which may be done by
public designation, though not by private endeavour. — Bacon.


pipping Intelligence.
ARRIVALS.
September l.—The brig Genii, 160 tons, Captain Lonr,
from the Whale Fishery, with 430 barrels sperm oil on board,
having left Sydney 15th June, 1843.
September 2.-—The;brig tons, Captain Thom,
from Launceston, witlVgrain, &c.
September 2.wriie brig Diana, 162 tons, Captain Tulloch,
from Launceston the 27th ultimo, with wheat, &c.
September 3. The brig Louisa, 182 tons, Captain Tucker,
from Hobart Town, the 28th August, with potatoes, &c.
September 3. The steamer Malt,land, 103 tons, Captain
Parsons, from Port Macquarie, with sundries.
DEPARTURES.
August 29. 'The steamer Sovereign Captain Cape, for
Moreton Bay, with a general cargo.
August 30.—The brig Governor Phillip, Captain Boyle, for
Norfolk Island, with stores, &c.
September l.—The barque Blundell, Captain Hunter, for
Calcutta, with horses, &c.
September 1. The ship St. Vincent, Captain Young, for
Balli, in ballast. 1 S
September I.—The ship London, Captain Atwood, for
Madras, in ballast.
September 1. —The ship Meg'‘Merrilies, Captain Thompson,
for Guam, with sundries.
September 4.—The brig Dorset, Captain Walsh, for Ade-
laide.
September 4. —The brig Emma, Captain Frost, for Adelaide.
THrtljs.
On the 18th ultimo, the lady of Mr. T. Whitton, of
Bathurst, of twin sons.
On the 27th ultimo, at Maitland, Mrs. David Dickson, of a
daughter.
Ori the 28th ultimo, Mrs. J. Beattie, of George-street, of a
daughter.
On the 2nd instant, Mrs. R. Coveny, of Market-street,
Sydney, of a daughter.
On the 2nd instant, the lady of F. Garling, jun., Esq.,* of a
son.
On the 2nd instant, at Liverpool-street, the wife of Mr.
J.. Stewart, Veterinary Surgeon, of a daughter.
IBeatlj.
On the 26th August, at Irrawang, near Raymond Terrace,
by the accidental explosion of a gun, Christiana, eldest
daughter of Mr. J. King, of that place ; her death was instan-
taneous.
©olontal Etterarj? Journal,
AND
Weekly Btiscellany of Useful Information.
THE TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION to this Journal
are, Three Shillings per Quarter, in Town ; Country,
1 hree Shillings and Sixpence ; payable, in every case,
in advance.
Terms for Advertisements: —For one inch, and under,
Three Shillings; and One Shilling for every additional inch,
each insertion. Advertisements will be received until Two
o’clock on Wednesday afternoon; but cannot be withdrawn
later than Nine o’clock on Wednesday morning. Adver-
tisements must specify on the face of them the number of
times they are to be inserted, or they will be continued till
countermanded, and charged accordingly.
Parties signifying their intention of becoming Subscribers
to the Colonial Literary Journal, are informed that the first
numbers may be still obtained on application to their respec-
tive Agents, and at the Office.
TO LET,
A HOUSE, situate in King-street East, containing four
good rooms on the ground floor, one large room and two
bed-rooms on the first floor; kitchen and large cellar under
ground floor; with good dry stores, yard, and other conve-
niences.
This house is situated in a central part of the street, and
calculated for carrying on an extensive business. Rent and
other particulars may be known on application at 133, King-
street ; or at Mr. Brown’s,’grocer, King-street.
AH STQUNCEIVSEN-T.
THE undersigned having purchased the stock-in-trade and
good-will of the business of Mr. Thomas Clarke (for
merly Evans), Bookseller and Stationer, George-street re
spectfully begs to apprize his friends, and the public of
Australia, that he has just opened several cases shipped bv the
first houses in London, consisting of Books and Stationery of
the best description, which, in connexion with the present
extensive and well selected stock, induces him to hope he may
receive the same patronage which was for so many years
enjoyed by his predecessors, and begs to assure the patrons of
this, the oldest establishment in Sydney, that it shall ever be
his study, by the most strict attention to their commands to
receive a continuance of the same.
re 4 _ WILLIAM FORD.
554, George-street,
Opposite the Bank of Australasia.
NOTICE.
MR. WILLIAM FORD having purchased of us the whole
of the Stock-in-trade and good-will of the business of
Mr. Thomas Clarke, (formerly Evans), bookseller and stationer,
554, George-street, we hereby recommend him to the favoura-
ble notice of the public.
Signed W. C. BOTTS, 3 Trustees of the
G. R. GRIFFITHS, C. Estate of Thomas
H. FERRIS, S Clarke.
A CHALLENGE,
TO ENGLAND, IRELAND, SCOTLAND, AND ALL THE WORLD
BESIDE.
WALKER’S PATENT GROATS.
THIS ARTICLE, if tested, will be found to contain more
nutriment, than any similar article of the kind. E.
Walker is prepared to prove that two thirds of the quantity of
the above, if made in a proper manner, will be equal in nourish-
ment, and of a thicker substance, than the usual quantity
generally recommended by others in the directions for use.
Another desirable property belonging to Walker’s Patent
Groats is, as regards the great safety for export —not liable to
that change which the English manufacture is, by turning
sour on the voyage, avoided by the patent mode of preparation,
and greatly aided by the spontaneous growth of the grain
grown in this Country; while free from the artificial culture
which causes so much moisture in the farina of the English
grain, and scarcely ever eradicated or sufficiently prepared.
Enough already is before the public to satisfy them that
Walker’s Farinaceous Food, (for Children and for Persons with
impared digestion,) ought not to be despised, -and which for
the future will be packed in Tin Canisters, in order to preserve
its most agreeable flavour. With the usual white label—
sealed and signed Edward Walker—that only being genuine.
Wholesale orders to any extent will be immediately at-
tended to ; any export order exceeding ten gross of either
article, terms, half Cash, and the remainder when the goods
are resold.
Manufactory, Old Botany Road.
PIT AHS CROSS-CUT SAWS.
A CASE of the above, of good sizes, and in excellent con-
dition.
Also, a large quantity of handsome Tea and Hand Trays, to
be sold cheap.
J. K. HEYDON, King-street.
WASTE PAPER.
CLEAN PAPER, in sheets and otherwise, (being the ac-
cumulation of the last 3 years) may be had at the
General Printing Office, No. 133 King-street,
August 28th 1844.
Agents for this Journal.
Sydney , Mr. W. Jones, Circulating Library, Brickfield-hill.
Parramatta Mr. Hugh Taylor.
Windsor *. Mr. Walker.
Bathurst Mr. Tress.
West Maitland Mr. Galloway,
Camden , Campbelltoum, Penrith , and
Liverpool Mr. C. Lester.
Gunning Mr. Hawthorne.
