

COLONIAL
LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
“ NON TUA TE MOVEANT, SED PUBLICA VOTA.”
Vol. I. No. 5.]
SYDNEY, THURSDAY, JULY 25, 1844.
[Price 4d.
PREJUDICE.
To hate a man, and look upon him with suspicion,
for no other reason but that he belongs to or was
bom in some particular country, betrays a narrow and
prejudiced mind; yet how often do we hear men who
are accounted wise and learned avow an aversion to
an individual, without being able to assign any reason
for so doing, other than the one just mentioned.
Though these gentlemen may be ever so prepossessed
in favour of a stranger before he has spoken, let him
but wag his tongue, and if his speech denotes him
belonging to a country to which they have an anti-
pathy, the charm is broken, and they immediately
turn their backs upon him. This prejudice is gene-
rally very prominent among those who have moved
but in a limited sphere—who have never by travelling
and reflection been able to rub off the rust of illi-
beralism that is so apt to incrust the soul. The
Scottish Lowlander turns up his nose and thinks him-
self superior to the Highlander; the Englishman
fancies himself a cut above the Scotchman, whom he
considers servile and mean ; and the American is never
tired of cracking his jokes upon John Bull, who in
return holds the Yankee in utter contempt.
Two reasons may be assigned for this illiberal con-
duct in the family of man. These are past outrages
and climate. By past outrages we mean the cruel
wars that it was customary in bygone times for one
nation to wage with another, and the consequent
devastations and crimes which caused the posterity of
each country to grow up with the idea that the other
was its “natural enemy.” Thank heaven! these
stormy times are over; the sun of civilization is
beaming upon the minds of men, but still their hearts
are not yet sufficiently warmed towards each other —
the prejudices of their forefathers still exist among
them, and dwell in their bosoms like the waves of the
ocean after a storm.
The second cause is climate. In a country which
is favoured by nature with every luxury the earth
produces, where the ground yields spontaneously all
that the appetite requires, and where few necessities
exist to act as stimulants upon the minds of the in-
habitants, they are apt to become slothful and indo-
lent. On the other hand, the natives of a cold climate
and comparatively barren soil, who are continually
compelled to exert their utmost ingenuity to raise a
subsistence, become eventually so ingenious and artful,
that even Nature herself is hardly a match for them.
They are incessantly at war with the elements, and
their minds are never allowed to remain inactive.
Necessity is tlie grand sharpener of their wits, and the
new discoveries they are ever making in the arts and
sciences are numberless. From these countries there
is always a considerable part of the population emi-
grating into those of their neighbours. They carry
along with them their native ingenuity, their hardi-
hood, their industry, and their poverty. The better-
informed part of the community, among whom they
locate, encourage them for their useful qualities ; but
the others, seeing themselves supplanted by these
new comers, grow jealous, and begin to hate them.
There may be certain duties in the country which the
natives are prejudiced against, and which they con-
sider a disgrace to perform : the foreigners, not having
the same feeling towards such offices, and viewing
them only as roads to wealth, fill them, and if they
should happen to be polite and civil in the per-
formance of their duty, they are too often called mean
and servile. The country to which they belong is
then fastened upon, and not only it, but all that are
in it, and all that ever left it, are branded with the
epithets of beggarly , mean , and servile. The senti-
ments of the jealous natives quickly spread, and the
foreigners, ere long, find that it has become quite
fashionable to hold them in derision and contempt,
without their knowing why or wherefore. If a war
should at any time have raged between the two coun-
tries, the aversion is doubly strong : generation after
generation will imbibe this prejudice ; and if a few of
these foreigners should turn out unprincipled persons,
the hatred to the nation will become such as centuries
of honourable dealing will scarcely cancel.
There are thousands who express a dislike to a
people without being aware that it is early prejudice
that causes this dislike, and not their own experience.
How often, too, are the feelings of the natives hurt
by foreigners drawing, comparisons between the land
they live in and the one in which they were born and
bred. These comparisons are generally partial, espe-
cially if he who draws them left his country when
young. It is the nature of man to look back upon
the scenes of his infancy, when his heart was free from
care, with an interest which is heightened by distance,
present troubles, and imagination. He expatiates on
the joys of his boyhood, and all the pleasurable sensa-
tions of his early days, as if the loss of them was
entirely owing to his removal from the scenes wdiere
he enjoyed them. He does not reflect that he must
again be young, and his heart as buoyant as ever,
before be can again appreciate the charms of those
scenes that possessed his heart and delighted his


fancy in the bright morning of youth. If you believe
him, his country, though it may be one of poverty
and meanness, is a fairy-land to the one in which he
now resides; and its government and institutions,
though perhaps despotic and corrupt, are founded on
principles of wisdom and liberalism, while the powers
by which he is now governed are tyrannical and
oppressive. But even allowing all this to be true,
what rigl t has he to hurt the self-love and patriotic
feelings of those in whose country he shelters himself,
by drawing such comparisons ? If they are content
with their laws and constitution, is it his business, who
is but a stranger in the land, to sow the seeds of sedi-
tion and discontent? If he is disgusted with their
form of government, why does he remain under it?
Why does he not pack up his his goods and return to
his own “ dear country ?” No one will hinder him—
unless it may be his poverty or his creditors. But if
his interest tells him that he had better remain where
he is, let him learn to respect the feelings of those by
whom he exists, and bless the land he lives in, until
he can afford to go back to his own countrymen and
relations, who doubtless will be glad to receive him,
especially if he takes along with him a well-lined
purse and a liberal hand.
Until the day arrives when man shall become more
of a cosmopolitan, and allow his reasoning powers to
act less shackled by pride and blind selfishness, pre-
judice must and will be one of bis ruling passions.
The sooner knowledge gains the ascendancy in the
human mind, the sooner will prejudice cease to exist.
Men, who now look upon each other as “natural
enemies,” because Providence ordained them to be
born in certain climates, and nurtured under particular
governments, will, we trust, ere long, recognise each
other as brothers belonging to one family, and the
earth which they inhabit as one country, in which
each will be encouraged according to his talents and
industry.
In the meantime let us make it an inviolable rule
never to speak against nations or communities en masse.
If an individual or individuals of any country have
betrayed our confidence, and proved themselves un-
worthy members of society, it is our duty to expose
them, for such exposure may put those on their guard
whom they are now deceiving; but never let us be so
uncharitable as to cast unpleasant reflections on the
country which gave them birth, as though it was re-
sponsible or reprehensible for the delinquencies of its
unprincipled sons. In our own lifetime we have met
with honest Jews, disinterested Scotchmen, liberal
Englishmen, sincere Irishmen, polite Americans, in-
telligent Indians, and good and noble of nearly every
country. We have also met with their countrymen
possessing the opposite to all these qualities: but are
we to condemn the former and their countries because
of the latter ? Heaven forbid ! —Leigh Hunt's Journal.
Biography.
THE LIFE OF PYTHAGORAS.
[Concluded from our last.]
Pythagoras, therefore, pretended to miraculous endowments.
Happening to be on the sea shore when certain fishermen
drew to the land an enormous number of fishes, he desired
them to allow him to dispose of the capture, which they con-
sented to do, provided he would name the precise number
they had caught. He did so, and required that they should
throw their prize into the sea again, at the same time paying
them the value of the fish. He tamed a Daunian bear by
whispering in his ear, and prevailed on him henceforth to
refrain from the flesh of animals, and to feed on vegetables.
By the same means he induced an ox not to eat beans, which
was a diet especially prohibited by Pythagoras ; and he called
down an eagle from his flight, causing him to sit on his hand,
and submit to be stroked down by the philosopher. In
Greece, when he passed the river Nessus, in Macedon, the
stream was heard to salute with the words, “ Hail Pythagoras V*
Whan Abaris addressed him as one of the heavenly host, he
took the stranger aside, and convinced him that he was under
no mistake, by exhibiting to him his thigh of gold ; or, accord-
ing to another account, he used the same sort of evidence at
a certain time, to convince his pupils of his celestial descent.
He is said to have been seen on the same day at Metapontum
in Italy, and at Tauromiurn in Sicily, though these places are
divided by the sea, so that it was conceived that it would cost
several days to pass from one to the other. In one instance,
he absented himself from his associates in Italy for a whole
year; and when he appeared again, related that he had passed
that time in the infernal regions, describing likewise the
marvellous things he had seen. Diogenes Laertius, speaking
of this circumstance, affirms, however, that he remained during
this period in a cave, where his mother conveyed to him intel-
ligence and necessaries, and that, when he came once more
into light and air, he appeared so emaciated and colourless,
that he might well be believed to have come out of Hades.
The close of the life of Pythagoras was, according to every
statement, in the midst of misfortune and violence. Some
particulars are related by lamblichus, which, though he is not
an authority beyond all exception, are so characteristic as
seems to entitle them to the being transcribed. This author
is more circumstantial than any other in stating the elaborate
steps by which the pupils of Pythagoras came to be finally
admitted into the full confidence of the master. He says that
they passed three years, in the first place, in a state of pro-
bation, carefully watched by their seniors, and exposed to their
occasional taunts and ironies, by way of experiment to ascer-
tain whether they were of a temper sufficiently philosophical
and firm. At the expiration of that period, they were ad-
mitted to a noviciate in which they were bound to unin-
terrupted silence, and heard the lectures of the master, while
he was himself concealed from their view by a curtain. They
were then received to initiation, and required to deliver over
their property to the common stock. They were admitted to
intercourse with the master. They were invited to a par-
ticipation of the most obscure theories and the abstrusest
problems. If, however, in this stage of their progress, they
were discovered to be too weak of intellectual penetration, or
any other fundamental objections were established against
them, they were expelled the community; the double of the
property they had contributed to the common stock was paid
down to them ; a headstone and a monument inscribed with
their names were set up in the place of meeting of the com-
munity ; they were considered as dead; and if afterwards they
met by chance any of those who were of the privileged few,
they were treated by them as entirely strangers.
Cylon, the richest man, or, as he is in one place styled,
the prince of Crotona, had manifested the greatest partiality
to Pythagoras. He was, at the same time, a man of rude,
impatient, and boisterous character. He, together with
Perialus of Thurium, submitted to all the severities of the
Pythagorean school. They passed the three years of pro-
bation, and the five years of silence. They were received
into the familiarity of the master. They were then initiated,
and delivered all their wealth into the common stock. They
were, however, ultimately pronounced deficient in intellectual
power, or for some other reason were not judged worthy to
continue among the confidential pupils of Pythagoras. They
were expelled. The double of the property they had con-
tributed was paid back to them. A monument was set up in
memory of what they had been, and they were pronounced
dead to the school.
It will easily be conceived in what temper Cylon sustained
this degradation. Of Perialus we hear nothing further. But
Cylon, from feelings of the deepest reverence and awe for
Pythagoras, which he cherished for .years, was filled, even to
bursting, with inextinguishable hatred and revenge. The
unparralleled merits, the venerable age of the master whom
he had so long followed, had no power to controul his violence.
His paramount influence in the city insured him the command
of a great body of followers. He excited them to a frame of
turbulence and riot. He represented to them how intolerable


was the despotism of this pretended philosopher. They sur-
rounded the school in which the pupils were accustomed to
assemble, and set it on fire. Forty persons perished in the
flames. According to some accounts, Pythagoras was absent
at the time: according to others, he and two of his pupils
escaped. He retired from Crotona to Metapontum. But the
hostility which had broken out in the former city followed him
there. He took refuge in the Temple of the Muses. But he
was held so closely besieged that no provisions could be con-
veyed to him ; and he finally perished with hunger, after,
according to Laertius, forty days abstinence.
It is difficult to imagine anything more instructive, and
more pregnant with matter for salutary reflection, than
the contrast presented to us by the character and system of
action of Pythagoras on the one hand, and those of the great
inquirers of the last two centuries, Bacon, Newton, and Locke,
on the other. Pythagoras probably does not yield to any one
of these in the evidences of truly intellectual greatness. In
his school, in the followers he trained resembling himself, and
in the salutary effects he produced on the institutions of the
various republics of Magna Grsecia and Sicily, he must be
allowed greatly to have excelled them. His discoveries of
various propositions in geometry, of the earth as a planet, and
of the solar system as now universally recognised, clearly
stamp him a genius of the highest order.
Yet this man, thug enlightened and philosophical, established
his system of proceeding upon narrow and exclusive prin-
ciples, and conducted it by methods of artifice, quackery, and
delusion. One of his leading maxims was, that the great and
fundamental truths, to the establishment of which he devoted
himself, were studiously to be concealed from the vulgar, and
only to be imparted to a select few, and after years of the
severest noviciate and trial. He learned his earliest lessons
of wisdom in Egypt, after this method, and he conformed
through life to the example which had thus been delivered to
him. The severe examination that he made of the candidates
previously to their being admitted into his school, and the
years of silence that were then prescribed to them, testify this.
He instructed them by symbols, obscure and enigmatical pro-
positions, which they were first to exercise their ingenuity to
expound. The authority and dogmatical assertions of the
master were to remain unquestioned: and the pupils were to
fashion themselves to obsequious and implicit submission, and
were the furthest in the world from being encouraged to the
independent exercise of their own understandings. There was
nothing that Pythagoras was more fixed to discountenance,
than the communication of the truths upon which he placed
the highest value to the uninitiated. It is not probable, there-
fore, that he wrote anything: all was communicated orally, by
such gradations, and with such discretion, as he might think
fit to adopt and exercise.
Delusion and falsehood were main features of his instruc-
tion. With what respect, therefore, can we consider, and to
what manliness worthy of his high character and endowments
can we impute, his discourses delivered from behind a curtain,
his hiding himself during the day, and only appearing by
night in a garb assumed for the purpose of exciting awe and
veneration ? What shall we say to the story of his various
transmigrations 1 At first sight it appears in the light of the
most audacious and unblushing imposition. And, if we are to
yield so far as to admit that by a high-wrought enthusiasm,
by a long train of maceration and visionary reveries, he suc-
ceeded in imposing on himself, this, though in a different way,
would scarcely less detract from the high stage of eminence
upon which the nobler parts of his character would induce us
to place him.
Such were some of the main causes that have made his
efforts perishable, and the lustre which should have attended
his genius in a great degree transitory and fugitive. He was
probably much under the influence of a contemptible jealousy
and must be considered as desirous that none of his contem-
poraries or followers should eclipse their master. All was
oracular and dogmatic in the school of Pythagoras. He prized
and justly prized, the greatness of his attainments and dis-
coveries, and had no conception that anything could go beyond
them. He did not encourage, nay, he resolutely opposed, all
true independence of mind, and that undaunted spirit of enter-
prise, which is the atmosphere in which the sublimest thoughts
are most naturally generated. He therefore did not throw
open the gates of science and wisdom, and invite every comer ;
but, on the contrary, narrowed the entrance, and carefully
reduced the number of aspirants. He thought not of the most
likely methods to give strength, and permanence, and an
extensive sphere to the progress of the human mind. For
these reasons he wrote nothing; but consigned all to the frail
and uncertain custody of tradition. And distant posterity has
amply revenged itself upon the narrowness of his policy ; and
the name of Pythagoras, which would otherwise have been
ranked with the first luminaries of mankind, and consigned to
everlasting gratitude, has, in consequence of a few radical and
fatal mistakes, been often loaded with obloquy, and the hero
who bore it been indiscriminately classed among the votaries
of imposture and artifice.
“IT IS BUT.”
[From the “London Journal.”]
From the days of Shakspeare to the present time,
it has constantly been written and repeated that
“Because is a woman’s reason;” but, hitherto, we
have heard of no word or words that have been par-
ticularly denominated “A man’s reason,” nor do we
ourselves pretend to have discovered any phrase that
will serve the purpose but such as is of epicene or
doubtful gender, and applicable to both sexes. “It is
But ” forms a reason which is seized upon, and applied
with equal avidity, by male and female, of all ranks
and stations. It is wonderful the power these three
little words have, in soothing conscience and lulling it
to rest.
The man of rank and fortune, when he is about
to give hundreds for “an Arabian,” or thousands for
some work of art, which he must mortgage part of his
estate to procure, says “ ‘ It is But’ seven thousand,
and the present?owner gave much more for it.” Excel-
lent reason !—yet, lor no better, many a younger son
has been deprived of a comfortable independence.
The merchant, when he is inclined to speculate beyond
what prudence suggests to be right, says, if the specu-
lation fail, “ ‘ It is But’ three thousand pounds lost,
and to make it up I can dismiss two or three of the
servants, the children can go to a less expensive
school, or be kept altogether at home.” This is
promptly decided upon; but he allows himself no
time to scan the consequences which will inevitably
follow his measures. Such a disarrangement of a
family will undoubtedly produce years of discomfort
and misery. His object is to get back his money :he
gains it; but in the meantime (to state one result
only, by way of sample), his wife has lost her temper
for life, and when that is gone where is his happiness X
By the poor man these words are used (oh ! melan-
choly sight) as he staggers back into the beer-shop to
spend his remaining pittance, declaring “ It is But”
sixpence—not worth keeping. And forthwith he pro-
ceeds to pour into his burning throat what will only
make it burn more; The sixpence thus destroyed, to
worse than no purpose, would have bought as much
bread, perhaps, as his family could eat in a day.
Simple as the argument appears, its general appli-
cation makes it of great importance to mankind. If
our readers, particularly the female part, would look
over their purchases for the last three months, and
mark such as have been bought for no other reason
than “ It is But” a trifle, in many instances, we are
certain, they would amount to one fourth of their
expenditure , and, in some cases, to one third.
There is one class, who, compared with the rest of
the world, make but little use of this sophistry ; we
mean professional people, with certain limited incomes.
They contrive to live amongst those who are three or
four times as rich as themselves, and to a common
observer there is little or no difference between them
in all exteriors, and it is possible that one may have


as much real comfort as the other. The secret is
this :—the man of small fortune has long since learnt
to dispense with the “It is buts.” There were two
families, and in each three daughters. Mrs. Jackson
often wondered how the Miss Wilsons managed to be
so neat and fashionable in their appearance, for it was
well-known their father was not rich. She declared
she spent a great deal of money on her girls, but the
effect produced certainly did not equal the Wilsons.
Mrs. Jackson took the earliest opportunity to endea-
vour to learn the cause of the difference. Mrs. Wilson
candidly told her the amount of the yearly sum she
allowed her daughters for dress. “ Bless me ! ” ex-
claimed Mrs. J., “ is it possible that so little as that
will buy them more than shoes and bonnets ? Mine
have three times that sum ; and their father always
gives them several pounds each as a Christmas-box ;
and after all, that they should appear worse dressed
than their neighbours is really provoking.” “ There
is one rule,” said Mrs. Wilson, “ I have insisted on
my children adhering to, which is never to buy any-
thing they do not want, because ‘lt is But’ so
and so.”
Money is not the only valuable possession these
words are employed to get rid of. How much does
time, which is “ every man’s estate,” suffer from them !
Many months, yes, years, of some lives have been
trifled away ; true it is, the evil has been effected by
half hours, and quarters, but the loss is scarcely less
on that account. If a man is compelled to give away
a thousand pounds, it makes but little difference
whether it is taken from him by sixpences, or by five
shillings at a time. How few people of fortune attend
to any uselul or necessary employment before eleven
o’clock in the day. Walter Scott is a bright example
of a contrary practice-. from six to eleven in the
morning was the time he devoted to writing and
study; a whole world has felt and acknowledged the
pleasure and instruction it has derived from his
economy of time. The tradesnicon who has risen later
than usual, exclaims “It is But” half an hour till
breakfast, which is too short a period to finish any-
thing in ; and, therefore, according to his reasoning,
nothing ought to be begun. He afterwards discovers
that many little arrangements may have been begun
and ended in the half hour.
The young lady who idles away small portions of
time, because “It is But” a few minutes till the
arrival of something or other which she is expecting,
w 7 ould do well to turn her attention to the proper
application of these odd minutes : a short trial would
convince her of the many useful things that may be
effected by it.
We have a young acquaintance who can play, for
hours together, a succession of waltzes and quadrilles,
and she has assured me, that they were most of them
acquired during odd-quarters of hours before break-
fast, or whilst waiting for dinner. She has advanced
considerably in our estimation since we have known
this proof of her wisdom in “taking care of the
minutes.” An officer who served in the Peninsular
war, made very considerable progress in the Spanish
and German languages, by devoting to them only
those moments which would have been spent by
others in “ waiting,” as it is generally termed.
It would be an easy task to multiply examples of
the use and misuse of small portions of time and
money ; but these hints, it is believed, will suggest
to the mind of every reader, capable of self-improve-
ment, with the help of the congenial variation of the
old proverb, “ Take care of the minutes, and the hours
will take care of themselves.”
History.
ANCIENT HISTORY: SECTION III.
OF THE EGYPTIANS.
1. A great portion of the knowledge and attain-
ments of the ancient nations, and by consequence of
those of the moderns, is to be traced to Egypt. The
Egyptians instructed the Greeks ; they performed
the same office to the Romans ; and the two latter
have transmitted much of that knowledge to the
world of which we are in possession at this day.
2. The antiquity of this empire, though -we give
no credit to the chronicles of Manetho, (an Egyptian
priest, author of the history of the Dynasties of Egypt)
or those of the Chaldeans, Chinese, or Indians, must be
allowed to be very great. —The Mosaic writings repre-
sent Egypt, about 430 years after the flood, as a flourish-
ing and well-regulated kingdom.—The nature of the
country itself affords a presumption of the great an-
tiquity of the empire, and its early civilization. —•
From the fertilizing effects of the waters of the Nile,
it is probable that agriculture would be more early
practised there, than in the regions less favoured by
nature. —The periodical inundations of the Nile are
owing to the vapours of the Mediterranean condensed
on the mountains of Ethiopia.
3. The government of Egypt was an hereditary
monarchy.—The powers of the monarch were limited
by constitutional laws ; yet in many respects his
authority was extremely despotical.—The functions
of the sovereign were partly civil and partly religious.
—The king had the chief regulation of all that
regarded the worship of the gods ; and the priests,
considered as his deputies, filled all the offices of
state. They were both the legislators and the civil
judges ; they imposed and levied the taxes, and
regulated weights and measures. —The great national
tribunal was composed of thirty judges, chosen from
the priests in the three principal provinces or depart-
ments of the empire, Thebes, Heliopilis,and Memphis.
These judges had revenues assigned to them, that,
being freed from domestic cares, they might devote
their whole time to the execution of the laws. Thus,
maintained by the liberality of the sovereign, who
exacted an oath from them not to yield obedience
even to himself, if he passed an unjust law, they
administered gratuitously to the people that justice
to which they have a natural right, and, as parties
were their own advocates, the expense was no burden
upon the people. To guard against surprise, the
judges also required that every case should be laid
before them in writing, lest they might be misled by
that extraordinary gift of oratory which often daz-
zles the mind and moves the passions.—The penal
laws of Egypt were uncommonly severe.—Wilful
murder and perjury were punished with death, and
the false accuser w T as condemned to suffer the same
punishment which the person accused would have
suffered had the charge been proved. —Female chastity
was most rigidly protected ; and he who refused to
render assistance to another when attacked, was equally
liable to punishment with the individual who had


done the injury.—Funeral rites were not conferred
but after a scrutiny into the life of the deceased, and
by a judicial decree approving of his character. The
characters even of the sovereigns were subjected to
this inquiry.
There was an extraordinary regulation in Egypt
to discourage the borrowing of money. The borrower
ivas required to give in pledge the body of his father,
which it was the custom to have embalmed in a re-
markable manner, and he was not only deprived of
funeral rites if he failed to redeem it, but whilst he
lived he was not permitted to bury any person de-
scended from him.
Population was encouraged by many salutary laws.
The exposing of infants was restrained by the sever-
est penalties, and every man was bound to maintain
and educate not only the children born to him in the
state of marriage, but also those that he had by his
slaves or concubines: whatever was the condition of
the woman, whether she was free or a slave, her
children were deemed free and legitimate. Homicide
was punished with death even when committed on a
slave.
3. The manners of the Egyptians were very early
formed. They had a singular attachment to ancient
usages ; a dislike to innovation ; a jealousy and ab-
horrence of strangers.
4. They preceded most of the ancient nations in
the knowledge of the useful arts and in the cultiva-
tion of the sciences. They understood very early the
use of metals, both in the fabrication of serviceable
utensils, in ornamental decorations, and in the coin-
ing of money, as a medium of commerce.—Architec-
ture was early brought to great perfection.—Their
buildings, the pyarmids, obelisks, &c., have, from
the extreme mildness of the climate, suffered little
injury from time. Some of the obelisks, which are
supposed to be more ancient than the pyramids, and
consequently above SOOO years old, are entire at this
day ; one in particular may be seen at Rome, which
was transported thither by Augustus, and which Pliny
says was supposed to be older than the time of Sesos-
tris. These immense masses, consisting of one entire
block of granite, were hewn in the quarries of Upper
Egypt, where some are now to be seen half finished.
During the inundation of the Nile, and by means of
canals, they were conveyed on rafts to the places
where they were to be erected.—Pliny minutely de-
scribes the contrivance by means of which they were
transported. The whole country abounds with the
remains of ancient magnificence.—Thebes, in Upper
Egypt, was one of the most splendid cities in the
universe.
The pyramids are supposed to have been erected
about 900 years a.c. —They were probably the se-
pulchral monuments of the sovereigns. The Egyp-
tians believed that death did not separate the soul
from the body ; and hence their extreme care to
preserve the body entire, by embalming, concealing
it in caves and catacombs, and guarding it by such
stupendous structures.—Mr. Bruce supposes the pyra-
mids to be rocks hewn into a pyramidal form, and
encrusted, where necessary, with masonry work.
The remains of art in Egypt, though venerable for
their great antiquity, are extremely deficient in
beauty and elegance.—The Egyptians were ignorant
of the construction of an arch.—The remains of
painting and sculpture evince but a slender profici-
eacy in those arts, and afford but a small degree of
pleasure to the critical eye.
5. The Egyptians possessed considerable knowledge
of geometry, mechanics, and astronomy. They had
divided the zodiac into twelve signs ; they were able
to calculate both solar and lunar eclipses ; and seem
to have had an idea of the motion of the earth.
6. The morality taught by the priests was pure
and refined ; but it had little influence on the manners
of the people.
7. So likewise the theology and secret doctrines of
the priests were rational and sublime ; but the worship
of the people was debased by the most absurd and
contemptible superstition.
8. Notwithstanding the early civilization and the
great attainments of this people, their national cha-
racter was extremely low and despicable among the
contemporary nations of antiquity. The reason of
is, they were a people who chose to sequestrate
themselves from the rest of mankind ; they were not
known to other nations by their conquests; they had
little connexion with them by commerce ; and they
had an antipathy to the persons and manners of
strangers.
9. There were likewise many circumstances of
their own manners which tended to degrade them in
the opinion of other nations. —All professions were
hereditary in Egypt, and the rank of each was scrupu-
lously settled : the objects of the religious worship
were different in different parts of the kingdom ; a
fertile source of division and controversy : their
particular superstitions were of the most absurd and
debasing nature : and the manners of the people were
extremely loose and profligate.
INDEX VERBORUM VITANDORUM.
Or, a list of Words, Phrases, &c., which are to be avoided by
all correct Readers, Spellers*, Speakers, and Writers.
No. I.
PROSTHESIS.
A Prosthesis, to front of words, does add
Letters or syllables they never had.
Error.
a dry,
disannul,
ever an dever,
7tos tier,
in anno Domini,
in the year, A.D.,
on ajar,
outvie with,
squench,
ichart,
the Alcoran,
unloose,
yclad,
Correction.
dry.
annul.
ever and ever,
ostler.
anno Domini.
A. D.
ajar,
vie with,
quench.
chart, (or, as k.)
The Koran, or, A1 Koran.
loose.
clad.
[* We feel pleasure in stating, that much of our Miscellany
is calculated for the instruction of youth.]
EGOTISM.
This very common failing is exceedingly repre-
hensible. The Egotist is a hindrance to himself, and
an offence to his friends. His conversation is ever of
himself, to the total exclusion of topics of mutual and
social interest. The Egotist, besides the prominent,
if not exclusive, share he forcibly appropriates in con-
versation, may be known by a perusal of his familiar
epistle to a friend. There, every paragraph com-
mences with I; and the substance of every sentence
relates to himself , his proceedings, his prospects, his


hopes, his wishes. In addition to the disgust which
this too common, though yet amusing, fault occasions
to his hearers, the Egotist is seldom content with
giving a real and true account of—what he forces
upon us —his affairs, his connections, &c., &c., but
falls, almost inevitably, into the real crime of exag-
geration, by which he does not only defeat his darling
object of unduly raising himself in the opinion of
others, but first wearies, then affronts, and finally
alienates, his friend. Such a man, unless he has
the wisdom and common sense to perceive and dis-
continue, w r hat is so glaringly striking to every body
else, passes his days in a dream of disappointment
and self-delusive vanity, only to be aw^oke—if, in-
deed, that is possible—by some rude shock of con-
temptuous and w 7 ell-merited rebuke.
AMEEN OF ISFAHAN AND THE GHOOL.
In Sir John Malcolm’s most agreeable and instruc-
tive “ Sketches of Persia,” we meet w ith the follow-
ing highly amusing story, which Sir John says w r as
related to him by his friend Hajee Hoosein, at a
dreary spot in Persia, named the valley of the Angel
of Death.
“ You know,” said he, “ that the natives of Isfahan,
though not brave, are the most crafty and acute peo-
ple upon the earth, and often supply the want of
courage by their address. An inhabitant of that city
was once compelled to travel alone and at night
through this dreadful valley. He w T as a man of ready
wit, and fond of adventures, and, though no lion, had
great confidence in his cunning, wffiich had brought
him through a hundred scrapes and perils, that would
have embarrassed or destroyed your simple man of
valour.
This man whose name was Ameen Beg, had heard
many stories of Ghools of the Valley of the Angel of
Death, and thought it likely he might meet one •. he
prepared, accordingly, by putting an egg and a lump
of salt in his pocket. He had not gone far amid the
rocks we have just passed, when he heard a voice
crying, “ Holloa, Ameen Beg Isfahanee ! you are
going the wrong road ; you will lose yourself : come
this w r ay •• lam your friend Kerreem Beg : I know r
your father, old Kerbela Beg, and the street in w’hich
you were born.” Ameen knew well the power the
Ghools had of assuming the shape of any person they
chose ; and he also knew their skill as genealogists,
and their knowledge of towms as w 7 ell as families ;
he had, therefore, little doubt that this was one of
those creatures alluring him to destruction, He how r-
ever determined to encounter him, and trust to his art
for his escape.
“ Stop, my friend, till I come near you,” was his
reply. When Ameen came close to the Ghool, he
said, “ You are not my friend Kerreem, you are a
lying demon ; but you are just the being I desired to
meet. I have tried my strength against all the men
and all the beasts w’hich exist in the natural world,
and I can find nothing that is a match for me. I
came, therefore, to this valley, in the hope of encoun-
tering a Ghool, that I might prove my prowess upon
him.”
The Ghool, astonished at being addressed in this
manner, looked keenly at him, and said, “Son of
Adam, you do not appear so strong.” “ Appearances
are deceitful,” replied Ameen ; “ but I will give you
proof of my strength I —There,” said he, picking up a
stone from a rivulet, “ this contains a fluid ; try if
you can so squeeze it that it will flow out.” The
Ghool took the stone, hut after a short attempt re-
turned it, saying, “ The thing is impossible.” “ Quite
easy,” said the Isfahanee, taking the stone, and plac-
ing it in the hand in which he had before put the egg :
“look there!” and the astonished Ghool, while he
heard what he took for the breaking of the stone, saw
the liquid run from between Ameen’s fingers—and
this apparently without any effort.
Ameen aided by the darkness, placed the stone
upon the ground while he picked up another of a
darker hue. “ This,” said he, “ I can see contains
salt, as you will find if you can Crumble it between
your fingers.”—But the Ghool, looking at it, confes-
sed he had neither knowledge to discover the quali-
ties, nor strength to break it.” “ Give it me,” said
his companion impatiently; and having put it into
the same hand w r ith the piece of salt, he instantly
gave the latter, all crushed to the Ghool, who, seeing
it reduced to powder, tasted it, and remained in stupid
astonishment at th£ skill and strength of this won-
derful man. Neither was he without alarm lest his
strength should be exerted against himself; and he
saw no safety in resorting to the shape of a beast, for
Ameen had w'arned him that if he commenced any
such unfair dealing he would instantly slay him; for
Ghools, though long-lived, are not immortal.
Under such circumstances he thought his best
plan was to conciliate the friendship of his new com-
panion till he found an opportunity of destroying
him.
“ Most wonderful man !” he said, “will you ho-
nour my abode w r ith your presence ?it is quite at
hand : there you will find every refreshment ; and
after a comfoitable night’s rest you can resume your
journey.”
“ I have no objection, friend Ghool, to accept your
offer : but mark me —I am in the first place, very pas-
sionate, and must not be provoked by any expressions
which are in the least disrespectful; and in the second,
I am full of penetration, and can see through your
designs as clearly as I saw r into that hard stone in
which I discovered salt :so take care you entertain
none that are wicked, or you shall suffer.”
The Ghool declared that the ear of his guest should
be pained by no expression to which it did not befit
his dignity to listen ; and he swore by the head of
his liege lord, the Angel of Death, that he would
faithfully respect the rights of hospitality and friend-
ship.
Thus satisfied, Ameen followed the Ghool through
a number of crooked paths, rugged cliffs, and deep
ravines, till they came to a large cave, which was
dimly lighted. “ Here,” said the Ghool, “ I dwell;
and here my friend will find all he can want for re-
freshment and repose.” So saying, he led him to
various apartments, in which w r as hoarded every
species of grain, and all kinds of merchandise, plun-
dered from travellers who had been deluded to this
den, and of whose fate Ameen was too well informed
by the bones over w'hich he now and then stumbled,
and by the putrid smell produced by some half-con-
sumed carcases.
“ This will be sufficient for your supper, I hope,”
said the Ghool, taking up a great bag of rice ;“ a
man of your prowess must have a tolerable appetite.”
•' 4 True,” said Ameen ; “ but I ate a sheep, and as


much rice as you have there, before I proceeded on
my journey. I am, consequently, not hungry ; but
I will take a little, lest I offend your hospitality.”
“ I must boil it for you,” said the demon; “ you do
not eat grain and meat raw, as we do. Here is a
kettle,” said he, taking up one lying amongst the
plundered property : “ I will go and get wood for a
fire, wile you fetch water with that,” pointing to a
bag made of hides of six oxen.
Ameen waited till he saw his host leave the cave
for the wood; aud then, with great difficulty, he
dragged the enormous bag to the bank of a dark stream
which issued from the rocks at the other end of the
cavern, and after being visible for a few yards, disap-
peared under ground.
How shall I, thought Ameen, prevent my weakness
being discovered ? This bag I could hardly manage
when empty ; Avhen full it would require twenty
strong men to carry it—what shall I do? I shall
certainly be eaten up by this cannibal Ghool, who is
now' only kept in order by the impression of my great
strength. After some minutes’ reflection, the Isfahanee
thought of a scheme, and began digging a small
channel from the stream towards the place where the
supper was preparing.
“What are you doing?” vociferated the Ghool as
as he advanced towards him ; “ I sent you for water
to boil a little rice, and yon have been an hour about
it. Cannot you fill the bag, and bring it away ?”
“ Certainly I can,” said Ameen, “ if I were content,
after all your kindness, to show my gratitude merely
by feats of brute strength, I could lift your stream,
if you had a bag large enough to hold it; hut here,”
said he, pointing to the channel he had begun, “ here
is the commencement of a work in which the mind of
man is employed to lessen the labour of the body.
This canal, small as it may appear, will carry a
stream to the other end of the cave, in which I will
construct a dam that you can open and shut at plea-
sure, and thereby save yourself infinite trouble in
fetching water. But pray let me alone till it is
finished ;” and he began to dig. “Nonsense !” said
the Ghool, seizing the bag and filling it ; “I will
carry the water myself, and I advise you to leave
off your canal, as you call it, and follow me, that
you may eat your supper and go to sleep ; you may
finish this fine work, if you like it, to-morrow
morning.”
Ameen congratulated himself on his escape, and
was not slow in taking the advice of his host. After
having eaten heartily of the supper that was prepared,
he w r ent to repose on a bed made of the richest
coverlets and pillows, which ■were taken from the
store-rooms of plundered goods. The Ghool, Avhose
bed was also in the cave, had no sooner laid down
than he fell into a sound sleep. The anxiety of
Ameen s mind prevented him from following his ex-
ample : he rose gently, and having stuffed a long
pillow into the middle of his bed, to make it appear
as if he were still there, he retired to a concealed
place in the cavern to watch the proceedings of the
Ghool. The latter awoke a short time before day-
light, and rising, -went without making any noise,
towards Ameen’s bed, where not observing the least
stir, he was satisfied his guest was in a deep sleep ;
so he took up one of his walking-sticks, which was in
size like the trunk of a tree, and struck a terrible
blow at what he supposed to be Ameen’s head. He
smiled, not to hear a groan, thinking he had deprived
him of life ; but to make sure of his work, he re-
peated the blow seven times. He then returned to
rest, but had hardly settled himself to sleep, when
Ameen, who had crept into the bed, raised his head
above the clothes* and exclaimed, “ Friend Ghool,
what insect could it be that has disturbed me by its
tapping? I counted the flap of its little wings seven
times on the coverlet. These vermin are very annoy-
ing, for though they cannot hurt a man, they disturb
his rest !”
The Ghool’s dismay, at hearing Ameen speak at
all, was great; but that was increased to perfect fright
when he heard him describe seven blows, any one of
which would have felled an elephant, as seven flaps
of an insect’s wing. There was no safety, he thought,
near so wonderful a man ; and he soon afterwards
arose, and fled from the cave, leaving the Isfahanee
its sole master.
When Ameen found his host gone, he was at no
loss to conjecture the cause, and immediately began
to survey the treasure with which he was surrounded,
and to contrive means for removing them to his own
home.
After examining the contents of the cave, and arm-
ing himself with a match-lock, which had belonged
to some victim of the Ghool, he proceeded to survey
the road. He had, however, only gone a short dis-
tance, when he saw the Ghool returning with a large
club in his hand, and accompanied by a fox. Ameen’s
knowledge of the cunning animal instantly led him
to suspect that it had undeceived his enemy, but his
presence of mind did not forsake him. “ Take that,”
said he to the fox, aiming a ball at him from his
match-lock, and shooting him through the head ; “ take
that for your not performing my orders. That brute,”
said he, “ promised to bring me seven ghools, that I
might chain them and bring them to Isfahan ; and
here he has only brought you, who are already my
slave.” So saying, he advanced towards the Ghool;
but the latter had already taken to flight, and by the
aid of his club bounded so rapidly over rocks and
precipices, that he was soon out of sight.
Ameen having marked well the pa,th from the
cavern to the road, went to the nearest town, and
hired camels and mules to remove the property he
had acquired. After making restitution to all who
remained alive to prove their goods, he became, from
what was unclaimed, a man of wealth; all of which
was owing to that wit and art which ever overcome
brute strength and courage.
Varieties.
Correcting the Press. —The publishers of the French
‘ Dictionary of French Dictionaries’ adopted a plan somewhat
similar to that followed by the Stephenses and Elzevirs.—
The proof sheets of the work v»ere open to general examina-
tion for seven days previously to the operation of pulling oft'
the copies ; and a premium of 50 cents (5d.) offered for every
typographical error which was detected. Twenty errors dis-
covered in one or more numbers of the work entitled the
discoverer to a gratuitous copy of the whole Dictionary.
“ I’ll take the shine out of you,” as the eclipse said to the
moon.
Contrary Winds. —An old sailor, having mounted for the
first time, on a restive horse, who would not advance, notwith-
standing the application of the spur, pulled his handkerchief
out of his pocket, aud spreading it in the wind, said, “ Ah ! I
see the reason we can’t get on—the wind is against us.”


Habits of Eminent Authors.— Shelly usually ate a baked
potato previously to sitting down to write. He has been
heard to assert that some of his finest ideas came whilst putting
in the butter. Whether lie purchased his potatoes in the
street, or had them dressed at home does not appear. Fielding
wrote the whole of “ Tom Jones” in one night, after a debauch
with Hogarth, and sold it the next moriting to procure him a
meal. Such is the fate of genius ! Kirke White was much
admired for his red hair, which he allowed to go down his
back in two plaits, lie never would suffer any allusion to be
made to it; but when writing used it as blotting paper. On
this account all his M.S. are transcribed in red ink, as may be
seen in the library of the British Museum. Cuvier always
wrote with a pail full of water at his side, in winch he alter-
nately dipped his head and feet to freshen his ideas. He has
•been known to do this upwards of sixty times in one night
when preparing his Regne Animal. It was his boast that he
had never been up in a balloon. Dr. Johnson could never see
a post without jumping over it. Boswell remarking upon its
puerilty, Johnson observed, “Sir, what a boy does in sport, a
man may do in earnest.” Upon which Boswell replied,
“ Then you mean to say that I might play at chuck-farthing?”
“ Sir,” returned Johnson, “ any man might if he had a farthing
to chuck.” How brilliant are these sallies, when compared to
the insane answers of modern times —the empty retorts of ex-
hausted receivers ! — Punch's Pocket Book.
Belles, it is said, call young men to church, quite as much
as bells.
Woman. —The perception of a woman is as quick as light-
ning. Her penetration is intuition ; almost instinct. By a
glance she will draw a deep and just conclusion. Ask her how
she formed it, and she cannot answer the question. A philo-
sopher deduces inferences; and his inferences shall be right ;
but he gets to the head of the stair-case, if I may so say, by
slow degrees, mounting step by step. She arrives at the top
of the stair-case as well as he; but whether she flew there, is
more than she knows herself. While she trusts her instinct
she is scarcely ever deceived, but she is generally lost when
she begins to reason.— Sherlock.
In what colour should our friendship be kept ? In-violet—
(lnviolate.)
Sharp-sightedness of a Blind Man. The following
story, which is a good commentary on Solomon’s saying, “ The
wise man’s eyes are in his head,” belongs to real life, and is
mentioned by Antonio di Palermo thus : —I learnt, says he, of
King Alphonso, that there was a Sicilian born blind, living
still, at that time in the citie Gergents, who had followed him
oftentimes a hunting, shewing to the liunts-men (who had their
sight well enough) the retraits and repairing places of the wild
beasts. Hee added further, touching the industrie of this blind
man, that having by his sparing and scraping gotten together
about five hundred crowns, which put him to a great deal of
care, he resolved to hide them in a field. As he was making a
hole in the ground to that end, a gossip of his, being his neigh-
bour, espied him, who, as soon as the blind man was gone,
searched in the earth, found the money, and carried it cleane
away. Two or three days after, the blind man returning thither
to visit his cash, and finding nought there, like one altogether
forlorne, he frets and torments himself, and, after much debating
and discoursing concludes, that no man but his gossip could
have plaied him such a tricke. Whereupon, finding him out,
he thus began to say unto him : Gossip, I am come to you to
have your opinion : I have a thousand crowns, and the one-
half of them I have hid in a safe place ; and for the other half
I know not what to doe with them, having not my sight, and
being very unfit to keep any such thing, therefore what thinke
you ? Might I not hide the other half with the rest, in the
same place of safetie ? The gossip approved and commended
his resolution, and going speedily to the place, carried back
again the five hundred crowns that he had taken away before,
hoping that he should have the whole thousand together. A
while after, the blind man goes to his hole, and finding there
his crownes againe, took them up, and coming home, calleth for
his gossip, saying unto him with a cheerful voice : Gossip, the
blind man hath seen better than he that hath two eyes.
How to Evade the Income Tax. —Invest all your money
in Pennsylvanian bonds. — Punch.
A Resource. —lt is neither paradoxical, nor merely poetical,
to say
“ That seeking others’ good, we find our own.”
This solid yet romantic maxim is found in no less a writer than
Plato ; who, sometimes in his moral lessons, as well as his
theological, is almost, though not altogether, a Christian. —
Sharp's Essays.
A Pedigree of some standing. —The newspapers speak
of a descendant of the great Chinese philosopher Confucius,
now living at the remote period from his ancestors of nearly 2400
years ! for Confucius was contemporary with Pythagoras !——
Socrates came a little after him. Here is a pedigree! When
this gentleman hears of the old families in Europe, he must
look upon them as people of yesterday. He is a magistrate
of the humbler order, but has no other rank. His descent,
however, is so much respected, that whenever he visits the
neighbouring town, the governor orders the gates to be thrown
open; an honour, which the worthy magistrate has the mo-
desty to decline.
The English language contains about 80,000 words— a large„
family, and rapidly increasing.
Slavery Anecdote. —From the speech of Mr. George
Thompson, delivered at Bradford, which we find in the Leeds
Mercury, the following is an extract. Mrs. Child related to
me the following touching anecdote : —“ A clever young physi-
cian, of the name of Wallis, went from Alexandria to a town
in the State of Mississippi, and took up his abode in a
boarding house. Here he fell in love with a beautiful young
female, who had the management of the establishment. She
was slightly coloured, but not having sufficient prejudice to
prevent him from appreciating her worth, he made her an
offer of his hand. The offer was accepted, they were married
rather secretly and he brought her, as his wife, into the
district of Columbia. They had not been long man and wife,
when one day an individual, dressed in the garb of a gentle-
man, called upon Dr. Wallis. After some little conversation,
the man, in a very gruff voice, said, “ Sir, did you not bring a
woman from the South with you ?” “No, sir,’' replied Dr.
Wallis, “ I am not aware that I did.”* “Why,” retorted the
other, “Did you not bring your wife from the South?”
“Yes,” replied Dr. Wallis, “I believe my lady is from the
South.” “ Your lady, as you call her, is my slave, and, unless
you give me 900 dollars for her at once, I will advertise her
as a runaway slave ! she is honestly worth 1,000 dollars, but as
you have married her, I will let you have her for 900.”
Struck with astonishment, Dr. Wallis said, “ Your'slave, sir !
I don’t believe it.” “ Believe it or not,” replied the other,
“ you will find it correct; I will leave you the bill, and if you
do not send the money to me before such a time, to such an
hotel, (naming the time and place,) I will advertise her in the
papers for sale, as a runaway slave.” As soon as the man was
gone, Dr, Wallis went up stairs to his amiable and lovely and
accomplished (for, by this time, he had given the finish to a
previously imperfect education,) wife, and said, “ My love
when I married you, were you a slave ? She burst into tears,
and falteringly said, “ I was.” “ And why did you not tel! me
this before we were married ?” “ I did not dare to tell you,”
she replied ; “ I feared you would never think of forming an
alliance with a slave.” “Well,” said he, “ I have found you
out; but I will give the 900 dollars, for I love you far too well
ever to part with you.” During this time, she was very deeply
agitated and requested Dr. Wallis to describe to her the indi-
vidual who had claimed her as a slave. He gave her as
accurate a description of the man as he could, and then asked
her if it corresponded with her former master. “ Yes,” said she
“ and more than my master ; that than is my otvn father /”
Lover. —A man who, in his anxiety to obtain possession of
another, has lost possession of himself.
A RECEIPT.
How TO Clean a Fowling-Piece. —Sir Astley Cooper
seemed to be innately philosophically disposed, and always had
some object of practical utility in view. In his scientific in-
quiries, he had a remarkable facility of applying his know ledge
to the daily concerns of life, and delighted in suggesting im-
provements for matters that might almost appear too trifling to
attract his notice. I remembe upon one occasion saying in
his hearing,—■“ I must send my gun to town to have it cleaned,
for it has become so much leaded that it is unfit for use.”
“ Pooh !” said he, “ send it to London !—there is not the least
occasion for it. Keep a few ounces of quicksilver in your gun-
case, and then you can easily clean your gun yourself. Stop up
the touch-holes by means of a little wax ; and then, pouring
the quicksilver into the barrels, roll it along them for a few
minutes. The mercury and the lead will form an amalgam,
and leave the gun as clean as the first daj it came out of the
shop. You have then only to strain the quicksilver through
a piece of thin wash-leather, and it is again fit for use, for the
lead will be left in the strainer.” —I have since adopted this
plan and with perfect success.— Life of Sir Astley Cooper*


The Moralist.
PRUDENCE.
Hear the words of Prurience, give heed unto her counsels,
and store them in thine heart: her maxims are universal, and
all the virtues lean upon her: she is the guide and mistress of
human life.
Put a bridle on thy tongue : set a guard before thy lips, lest
the words of thine own mouth destroy thy peace.
Let him that scoffeth at the lame, take care that he halt not
himself: whosoever speaketh of another’s failings with plea-
sure, shall hear of his own with bitterness of heart.
Of much speaking cometh repentance, but in silence is safety.
A talkative man is a nuisance to society ; the ear is sick of
his babbling, the torrent of his words overwhelmeth conver-
sation.
Boast not of thyself, for it shall bring contempt upon thee ;
neither deride another, for it is dangerous.
A bitter jest is the poison of friendship ; and he that cannot
restrain his tongue, shall have trouble.
Furnish thyself with the proper accommodations belonging
to thy condition; yet spend not to the utmost of what thou
canst afford, that the providence of thy youth may be a comfort
to thine old age.
Let thine own business engage thy attention ; leave the care
ef the state to the governors thereof.
Let not thy recreations be expensive, lest the pain of pur-
chasing them exceed the pleasure thou hast in their enjoy-
ment.
Neither let prosperity put out the eyes of circumspection,
nor abundance cut off the hands of frugality ; he that too much
indulgeth in the superfluities of life, shall live to lament the
want of its necessaries.
From the experience of others, do thou learn wisdom ; and
from their failings correct thine own faults.
When thou hast proved a man to be honest, lock him up in
thine heart as a treasure ! regard him as a jewel of inestimable
price.
Refuse the favours of a mercenary man ; they will be a snare
unto thee ; thou shalt never be quit of the obligation.
Use not to-day what to-morrow may want; neither leave
that to hazard which foresight may provide for, or care pre-
vent.
Yet expect not even from prudence infallible success ; for
the day knoweth not what the night may bring forth.
The fool is not always unfortunate, nor the wise man always
successful; yet never had a fool a thorough enjoyment; never
was a wise man wholly unhappy.
MORAL MAXIMS.
ALPHABETICALLY ARRANGED.
No. 5.
Affected superiority mars good fellowship.
A flatterer is a most dangerous enemy.
A fool always comes short of his reckoning.
A fool knows more in his own house than a wise man in
another’s.
A fool may chance to put something in a wise man’s head.
A fool’s bolt is soon shot.
A fool’s heart is ever dancing on his lips.
A fop is the tailor's friend, and his own foe.
A friar, that asks alms for God’s sake, begs for two.
A friend is never known ’till needed.
A friend, that you buy with presents, will be bought from
you.
After sweet meat comes sour sauce.
Forgiveness of Injuries. —Hath any wronged thee? be
bravely revenged ; slight it, and the work is begun ; forgive it,
and it is finished. He is below himself that is not above an
injury.— Quarles.
It was a fine and true remark, that, “ they who will abandon
a friend for an error, know but little of the human character,
and prove that their hearts are as cold as their judgements are
weak.”
The best way to humble a proud man is to take no notice
of him.
“It would be more obliging to say plainly, we cannot do
what is desired, than to amuse people with false words, which
pften put them upon felse measures.
Select Poetry.
TO POESY.
As many wander by the wondrous ocean
Only to gather pebbles, thou to millions
Art but as vanity ; but that emotion
Which of the hearts who feast in thy pavilions
Is the ripe-gushing fruit and foaming wine>
Is deep as Bacchus’ vat, or Mammon’s mind !
Those who despise thee and thy dreamy glories,
Because they know thee not, are dreamers vainer,
Who sleep through their dark life, and think it light;
Reality their spell-word: but thy sight
Out-glanceth dull day-life ; thy lofty stories
Are clear as their fond creeds, and thy religion plainer.
Oh ! be thou with my dense soul interfused !
That it may float in buoyant gladness
Upon thy stream of sober madness
Over the grave, within itself bemused :
When I am dead, be thou my cenotaph !
As shakes the shingle-foam beneath the wind,
I quiver at thy breath, which whirls the chaff
From out the stored garners of the mind :
Thou dost anneal the spirit, till each hue
O’ the outward Universe doth pierce it through
And there live colour’d in resemblance rife !
Thy lightning flashes from the clouds of life!
As the eye, eastward fix’d afar,
Plucks from the dawn a paling star,
Seen but by a striving vision;
Thou, with a sublime decision,
Forcestfrom the Universe
Many a dream and secret golden,
In its depths of glory folden,
And weav’st it into soul essential Verse !
Like the storm-presaging bird
In the van of thunder heard,
Thou prophesiest of Eternity ;
And from the great To-Come clouds roll before thine eye !
Like the Mseander’s, thy sweet streams return,
From their diverse and mazy wandering,
To their bright fountain urn ;
And to the spirit bring
Tidings of a diviner blossoming,
In meadows far away of endless spring.
Nature’s most common page with thee is fraught;
Thy flowers expand around us, dew’d and sunny—
But the wing’d hearts by whom thy balm is sought
Are few, and fewer those that find the honey
Which sleepeth in the depths of thy perfume :
Bees amass sweetness from the lowliest flower ;
But vulgar insects o'er a world of bloom
Flit, and reveal no nectar-hiving power.
*******
Deep Cell of Honey ! evermore unclosed,
But filling fast as feasted on: thou Flower !
That on the steep of Life aye over peerest
The Ocean of Eternity.
WADE.
FRIENDS AND BOYHOOD.
Talk not of years! ’twas yesterday
We chaced the hoop together,
And for the plover’s speckled egg
We waded through the heather.
The green is gay where gowans grow,
’Tis Saturday—oh ! come,
Hark! hear ye not our mother’s voice,
The earth—she calls us home.
Have we not found that fortune’s chace
For glory or for treasure,
Unlike the rolling circle’s race,
Was pastime, without pleasure ?
But seize your glass—another time
We’ll think of clouded days—
I’ll give a toast —fill up, my friend!
Here’s Boys and merry plays!”
JOHN GALT.


WEEKLY MISCELLANY.
THE PROSPECTS AND RESOURCES OF THE
COLONY.
ON THE COMPOSITION OF WATER.
Water is composed of two gases, oxygen and hydro-
gen, in unequal proportions, there being 8 parts of
oxygen to lof hydrogen. The important discovery
of the composition of water was made by Mr. Henry
Cavendish in 1788. Water, like air, is one of the
grand essentials of life both to animals and vegeta-
tion, and being a more tangible substance, its utility
as an agent in promoting our comfort and conveni-
ence is almost boundless. It is not only a source of
sustenance and cleanliness, but is a most general and
useful solvent ; especially of saline bodies. Without
taking into account the marvellous and endless power
which the conversion of water into steam has effected,
we may find sufficient cause for admiration and ado-
ration in its varied beauties and wholesome changes.
Water overspreads, by far, the greater portion of the
earth, and might be considered as one continued flood;
for the two great Continents, and the multitude of
Islands, are all immensely elevated portions of land
emerging through the water, as enduring witnesses of
a general deluge. There are some wise men, who
are of opinion that ice is the natural state of water: be
it as it may, we behold it as a liquid, and recognise it
as the dwelling place of animated life, varying in
form and size from “The great Leviathan who tra-
velled in the deep -waters” down to the smallest ani-
malcule which can only be discerned by microscopic
aid. We see it in its sweet varieties of rain, hail,
snow, fog, mist and dew, salt and fresh ; ice, and lastly
steam. The gases in water are more intimately
united than those which form the air, for if the oxygen
and hydrogen gases were simply mixed together like
those in air, they would not be water, they would
still be gases; but this is not the case, for they are con-
densed and united by chemical combination and in
that state are called water. We are, therefore, to
consider w r ater as two gases or two kinds of vapours
in a liquid form ; by applying heat to the liquid it
would become vapour, by abstracting heat it will
become ice. The vapours which arise from the
heating of water are oxygen and hydrogen gases but
still united as water and constitute the chief moisture
of the atmosphere. We are very apt to speak of cold
as of a positive substance, whereas cold is nothing of
itself, it is simply the absence of heat. In the winter
when the rays of the sun fall more obliquely on the
earth, the heat is less powerful ; the surface of the
earth therefore, and consequently the atmosphere, w T ill
experience a great deprivation of heat. Thus in the
formation of ice, the surface of the water being imme-
mediately in contact with the cold air first loses its
heat, the under parts afterwards. The heat continu-
ing to leave the water, which it does by passing
through the first coat of ice, the water becomes more
and more cold until it ha 3 attained a solidity. Ice is
therefore formed by the abstraction or departure of
heat. Water becomes ice at 32° of Fahrenheit’s
thermometer, which is called the freezing point.—
When the cold dry air has passed away there will be
a gradual return of the heat abstracted, w r hich enters
in at the surface of the ice, melts it, and proceeds in-
wardly until all is again become a liquid. During
the progress of thawing, the ice and the water melted
are of the same temperature, when the ice is all melted
it rises to the temperature of the surrounding atmos-
phere. Heat exists ahvays in water or it w r ould not
be liquid, but it is not altogether absent in ice. The
heat which renders a solid substance fluid, is called
chemically the caloric of fluidity. It is a general
principle in nature, that all substances shall be ex-
panded by heat, and contracted by cold ; the forma-
tion of ice is found to be an exception to this law,
ice occupying more space than water. The ice seen
on the rivers proves itself to be expanded, by its hav-
ing become lighter, and consequently floating on its
surface. The body of water that rests on the earth
does not freeze, but in very cold countries the ice
will thicken to an enormous extent. A mass of ice is
called an iceberg. These large portions of ice are
first formed by the congelation of w r ater round some
substance which may at the time be floating on its
surface ; their shape is generally circular, for the con-
gelation acting at several points at once, there results
a simultaneous increase. From the entrance of
Hudson’s Bay, in America, there will come down to
the milder parts Icebergs which are several thousand
feet in thickness. In the northern ocean icebergs
have been known to run aground on the Isles, where
the melting of them has produced so much damp and
cold as to destroy vegetation, cattle and human life.
In Captain Ross’ account of his recent expedition to
the Antarctic region, he states that he discovered
masses of ice more enormous than could be imagined
by those who have not seen them, two of his ships
were imminently endangered by them for several
days ; yet in this very cold latitude he also found
mountains 12 thousand feet in height, which had evi-
dently been thrown up by volcanic eruptions. Snow'
is also formed by the freezing of the aqueous vapour,
which takes place when it is floating in the atmosphere
where each particle becomes crystalized and descends
in the beautiful light feathery substances which we
call snow. These crystals attract each other like
drops of water, unite firmly when they reach the
earth and become a solid mass. Ice is frozen w T ater,
snow is frozen vapour. The inhabitants of London
frequently throw a quantity of salt on the snow which
rests near their houses in the winter season. Salt
has a strong attraction for water ; we see this by
putting salt on meat; it attracts the moisture, and the
salt and moisture of the meat become one liquid ;
also, w'hen the water is thrown on the snow, it attracts
the water, and both salt and snow become one liquid.
Hail consists of vapours which have ascended to an
elevated and rarified region where meeting with others
of a different temperature, they rush so rapidly toge-
ther, that they become solid and their weight propels
them to the earth with great velocity. The heavy
rains which fall to the. earth are chiefly attributable
to the vapours which rise from the sea, those which
rise from the earth would not be sufficient to keep it
in a state of vegetation. It is the vapours of the
ocean which w r aters the land and fills the rivers.
i&ottcc to <£omspontfcnts.
All communications must be addressed to “ The Editor of the
Colonial Literary Journal, General Printing Office, 133,
King-street East,” (postpaid.)
The Editor does not hold himself responsible for the opinions
and assertions contained in the Correspondence and Contri-
butions inserted in the Colonial Literary Journal.


PHRENOLOGY.
[For tiie Colonial Literary Journal.]
No. IT.
We shall find upon examination, that the organs
occupying the greater part of the forehead, and form-
ing a very remarkable group, constitute Memory, viz :
Individuality and Eventuality, almost surrounded by
Locality and Time; Comparison bordered by Casua-
lty and Wit. According to metaphysicians, the
associating adjuncts which recall the ideas of objects
or events to the mind, are, contiguity of place and
time, with resemblance and contrast, and the relation
of cause and effect. Nov/ upon turning our attention
to the grouping of the organs, as above alluded to, we
shall find Individuality, the faculty taking cognizance
of the existence of objects, and Eventuality, which takes
cognizance of events, almost surrounded by the organs
of Locality, the faculty of Place, and Time. Imme-
diately above these are the organs of Casuality, or
the faculty of Cause and Effect, and Comparison and
Wit, the organs that furnish the mind with resem-
blances and contrasts.
Such an arrangement as the above, coinciding so
remarkably with the principles on which Nature
works, must appear to the discerning! mind almost
indubitable and overwhelming proof of the truth of
the science. Here is the very strongest circumstan-
tial evidence to support its principles, and a jury
empannelled to decide upon the merits of the case,
with such evidence to go by, would certainly give a
verdict in favour of the science. But these are not
the only instances in which the grouping of the facul-
ties harmonizes with Nature’s plan, they are numerous
and striking. The talents requisite for a poetical
genius, will be found to be comprised in another
strikingly appropriate group. Ideality, the essence
of poetry —that undefinable and mysterious faculty of
the mind, which invests things mortal with an immor-
tal radiance, things earthly with a celestial being—
the faculty that has given rise to the exquisite feelings
of beauty and sublimity —and causes us to distinguish
the gold from the dross, is bordered by the organ of
Wonder, or the feeling of the marvellous ; following
which is Imitation, or the faculty which forms resem-
blances ; next to Ideality also lies Wit; and imme-
diately below and a little forward,lies Tune—forming
on the whole what has been very aptly denominated
£< the Poet’s corner.”
The arrangemement of the Moral Sentiments on
the coronal surface of the head, viz., the organs of
Benevolence, Veneration, Hope, and Conscientious-
ness, displays much harmony. The situation of Con-
scientiousness must be noticed for its extreme propriety.
This sentiment which inspires the feeling of equity or
justice lies between Caution and Firmness, the very
faculties necessary to regulate the performance of its
functions. The greatest circumspection is requisite
in coming to a just decision ; and sufficient firmness
to persist in it when made, not allowing any of the
other feelings to interfere with or bias such decision.
As regards the extreme propriety with which
Phrenologists have arranged the organs of the mind
npon the brain—we must stop here. The narrow
limits to w’hicli we are necessarily confined in an
article of this nature, prevent our entering as far into
this interesting subject as we would wish. We hope,
however, that enough has been said to rouse curiosity
and stimulate investigation ; the field is ample, and
we have but touched upon the topics therein con-
tained, —and that too, very imperfectly, we confess.
To those who may wish to give the subject a more mi-
nute investigation, we beg to recommend the perusal of
Mr. William Scott’s “ Observations on Phrenology, as
affording a systematic view of Human Nature;” and
to his “ Harmony of Phrenology with Scripture,” to
which we confess we are ourselves indebted for many
of the foregoing remarks.
Let us now turn for still further confirmation of the
truth of Phrenology, to the cerebral development of
Nations ; and in this wide field of research we shall
find innumerable facts, no less singular than true, to
substantiate the inference deducible from the preceding
remarks.
The celebrated Professor Blumenbach lias drawn
up a very curious and ingenious arrangement of the
different varieties of the human skull, in all parts
of the wrnrld. He observed that different nations
had different characteristic qualities; and inferred
from this circumstance, that the cerebral develop-
ment of each variety of the human species must
follow a certain method, indicative of its peculiar
traits of character. What he has denominated the
Caucasian variety of the human skull, is the pro-
totype of the greater part of the European family.
This variety is remarkable for its coronal and anterior
development, or, in other words, for its superior moral
and intellectual endowment; and its comparative
deficiency in the region of the propensities, or faculties
which we possess in common with the brutes. This
variety includes the skulls of all those nations which
have been remarkable for their civilization and refine-
ment, both in ancient and modern times. The
ancient inhabitant of Egypt—the cradle of the arts
and sciences, and the ancient Greek—another name
for a superior intellectual being, belong to this class.
The busts, statues, and likenesses of the celebrated
men of Greece, present us with a formation of
brain of the very highest intellectual order ; and we
need only direct the attention of our readers to the
portraits of Socrates, Pericles, Homer, Pindar and to
to that of its supreme divinity Jupiter, with numerous
others of its illustrious characters, to prove to our
readers the truth of the assertion.
ÆNEAS.
MATHEMATICS.
[For the Colonial Literary Journal,]
No. I.
“ Would you have a man reason well, you must use him to
it betimes, and exercise his mind in observing the connexion
of ideas and following them in train. Nothing does this
better than Mathematics, which therefore, I think, should be
taught all those who have time and opportunity, not so much
to make them mathematicians, as to make reasonable crea-
tures.”— Locke's Conduct of the Understanding.
This remark is well worthy the attention of the
community at large, who are interested in the rising
generation, for, good habits early acquired are never
thoroughly erased, and what is written on the juvenile
tablets of memory, is ever after retained to cheer or
cloud the reminiscences of future days* We do not
urge the early study of Mathematics for its intrinsic
merits particularly, or for its extensive application
to the busy matters of this life; but (at present)
simply for its influence on the mental character,


and for the thinking and reasoning bias it gives to
the mind of youth, involuntarily directing it to
consider and draw conclusions; and further, no study
contributes so much to mature the judgment, to pro-
mote patient habits of investigation, and of sound
argument ; to fix the attention, and finally excite the
admiration of the learner—when by frequent repeti-
tions the reasoning becomes clearer and clearer to his
perception— till he exclaims with internal satisfac-
tion, Q. E. D., (I may here mention, that this last is
my own experience, but to return) and last though
not least, on account of the moral beauty of every
proposition, namely, that truth is its aim, object and
result. These are matters universally important, and
should not be lost sight of by those who wish well to
Australian Youth and to “ Advance Australia.”
To have these habits early impressed, and to derive
these benefits, it is not requisite that the pupils should
become profound Mathematicians, but rather, only to
have them well grounded in the principles as far as
they go, and whatever is learned let it be learned
thoroughly, whether it be little or whether it be
much ; or vanity will prove that
“ A little learning is a dangerous thing.’’
In conclusion, I would suggest that a slight know-
ledge of Mathematics would be equally beneficial to
the female sex, whose ornamental education of the
present day cannot but be prejudicial to the mental
powers ; generally speaking, they are weakened, and
the imagination excited by the present glittering
acquisitions—the eye and the ear alone, are to be
gratified, while the mind is for the most part a blank.
I do not mean to say, that ladies should become
universally blue stockings, but I do mean to say that
those on whom the welfare of society depends, should
not thus be excluded (by custom) from acquiring
the solid and useful, as well as the trivial and orna-
mental.
From the tenor of these remarks, it will be per-
ceived that they are intended for the advantage of
youth, and therefore well adapted for the pages of a
Literary Journal; i. e. on account of the object in
view alone.
T. L. D.
HUNTERS OF THE PRAIRIE.
[From “ Tales of Travellers.”]
The heavy mists which, during a cool October night
had rested upon tjie waters of the Nemahaw river,
were wreathing through the woods that bordered its
hanks ; the tops of the trees were gilt with the bright
rays of a morning sun, which gave a gorgeous beauty
to the rainbow tints of the autumn foliage—the mantle
of the departing year. Occasionally small flocks of
parroquets flew with swift wings through the branches
of the trees, making the woods re-echo to their noisy
screams. A solitary raven had left the watch-tower
upon the silvery top of a dead sycamore, and was
soaring high up in the heavens ; and even that vaga-
bond bird, the turkey-buzzard, the vulture of America,
was floating far up in the blue sky, rivalling the eagle
in the beauty and majesty of his flight. The dew-
drops were sparkling like gems upon the leaves of the
trees, and a freshness was playing in the morning air,
which gave the indication of a bright and cheery day.
In the midst of a grove shading the banks of the
river, and in front of a large fire, were seated two
persons. The age of the youngest might have been
twenty, perhaps more. His dress was simple, and
suited to the wildness of the country around him. A
light hunting-coat of highly-dressed dear-skin was
girded around his waist by a broad leathern belt,
serving to set off a form whose slightness gave more
promise of activity than strength. A few locks of
light hair escaped from beneath a gay cap, also made
of deer-skin, and curiously ornamented with stripes
of porcupine quill. It was worn, however, more for
appearance than use, as it served rather to adorn than
shade the frank and fearless face beneath it. In his
belt he carried a silver-hilted dirk, a substitute for
the less elegant, though more serviceable, hunting-
knife. A pair of buck-skin leggings, which bore the
marks of rough usage, and many a hard encounter
with bushes and briars, were drawn over his panta-
loons, and completed his dress. With the exception
of these last articles, the lightness and even richness
of his attire, though modelled after that of the hun-
ters of this district, at once pointed him out as not
belonging to a class who look alone to durability in
their habiliments. Near him, against the trunk of a
tall cotton-tree, rested a light rifle, whose highly-
finished barrel, and stock inlaid Avith silver, shoAved
that it had come from the forge of no Avorkman Avest
of the Missisippi. His associate Avas in every respect
a back-wood hunter. He had numbered about forty
Avinters ; and his scarred and Aveather-beaten features
told many a tale of danger and exposure. His broad
white forehead strongly contrasted Avith a face of the
most SAvarthy hue, and gave an air of natural nobility
to his whole countenance. There Avas stamped too
upon his mouth an expression of unwavering resolu-
tion Avhich that feature alone can convey, giving to
him an air of quiet intrepidity, that bespoke one Avho
felt a full reliance upon his oAvn poAvers, and Avould
not shrink from bringing them into action. His eye
Avas gray, stern in its expression, and exceedingly
brilliant. His dress, though of coarser materials,
resembled that of his companion, and in the formation
far more attention appeared to have been bestoAved
upon the usefulness than the beauty of the garments.
Like his companion, hisAvaist Avas belted Avith a broad
leathern girdle. To it was attached a short scabbard
of undressed coAV-hide, containing a strong ldaded
knife, Avhich might serve either as a Aveapon of de-
fence, or for the more peaceful employment of cutting
his food. BetAveen his knees was a strong yager —a
species of rifle much in vogue Avith the hunters of this
part of the country, both on account of the conveni-
ence of its length, and the large size of its bore, which
rendered it more fatal in its effects. At the time of
introducing these characters to the reader, they were
both seated on a large log in front of the fire. The
eyes of both were fixed on a line of blue smoke Avhich
floated upwards, forming a pale canopy over their
heads, and slowly Avreathing among the branches of
the overhanging trees. Some deep and engrossing
subject seemed to be pressing on the minds of both,
and to have wrapped them up in a world of its oavii,
leaving its traces on their grave and silent faces.
At length the younger of the tAvo broke silence. —
“ You are moody this morning, Norton,” said he.—
“ I Avould give the tAvo best bullets in my pouch to
knoAV what occupies your thoughts.” His companion
raised his head —“ My thoughts, Herrick, are not
pleasant, that you need wish to buy them. ’ “Ah !


I suppose you are still harping on the foot-print in
the ashes of the burnt prairie. This same track ap-
pears to have troubled you much. But, cheer up !
The trappers are returning from the mountains about
this season, and it may have been left by one who
had straggled from the main body. Besides, it might
have been made some days since ; or even were it the
fresh moccassin-print of an Indian, you could scarcely
find a hostile one hereabouts. So you may scatter
your fears to the winds.” The other mused for some
moments, and then fixed his clear eye on the face of
his companion. “ But this scalp lock,” said he, ex-
tending a long thin braid of human hair. “It must
have fallen from the legging of an Indian. The
Konzas and Otoes rarely wear thsm. It has come
from the dress of an Omahaw or Pawnee. The first
are not too friendly, and a tomahawk and scalping-
knife would be our certain welcome from the last.—
The track, too, w r as fresh ; for the gale which swept
over the prairie in the morning would have covered
it with' ashes ; but it was clean, and made by the
heavy tread of a strong limbed man. — There are
those in our neighbourhood whose best wishes could
not stop the flight of an arrow, should they catch a
glimpse of us. It was thoughtless in you, boy, to
kindle so large a fire, and above all, to heap it with
green brushwood. It will send up a heavy smoke
that wfill scarcely escape the eye of a Redskin, should
any chance to be lurking in these clumps of forest.—
The eagle has not a quicker eye for his prey than
these cut-throat Indians.” “ Well! well ! let them
come ; we have arms.” “ Arms !” replied the other,
half contemptuously. “ What will two rifles and
two knives do against a hundred bows and toma-
hawks ? Think you a Pawnee or Omahaw would
venture alone, or even in a small band, in this neigh-
bourhood, where every tribe is at open war with him ?
Take my word for it, if we fight one, we shall have
to fight a hundred.” “ Well, well, Norton, we will
do that when they come •, but don’t let us fight them
before we see them, it is a waste of ammunition.”—
The hunter laughed as he replied, “ I am sometimes
surprised at myself for still clinging to you ; for your
thoughtlessness is constantly getting us into scrapes.
However, I was once young and thoughtless myself.”
c ' That of course.” replied Herrick in a merry tone.
“ It’s the way with old people to give that advice to
to their children which they never followed them-
selves. If the rising generation followed to the letter
the precepts of fathers and graudfathers, what a gray-
headed world we 'should live in !” 11 Herrick,” said
the other, eyeing him good-naturedly, “will you
never cease this bantering ?” “ Certainly. In
thirty years I shall be as demure and staid a gentle-
man as any of my age, and will give the same advice
to my children, if I have any, that I now receive ;
and shall be as much astonished if they do not follow
it, as my present advisers are. Ha ! look yonder.”
At this exclamation the hunter sprang to his feet,
and instinctively cocked his rifle. He cast a hurried
glance in the direction intimated by the extended arm
of his companion. On the brow of a low hill, at a
short distance from the thicket, stood a large cluster
of animals closely crowded together. “ Pshaw !” it
is only a gang of elk,” said Norton, dropping his gun
into the hollow of his arm. “ A fine herd though.—
They will probably make for this timber.” “If they
do, we 11 have one of them,” said Herrick eagerly.—
11 Yes,” answered Norton, “and perhaps an Indian
arrow by way of sauce.” “Hush! Norton, don’t
speak so loud ; you may startle them. Look ! are
they not beautiful ?” The herd now stood with
uplifted heads, surveying the whole expanse of prairie,
seemingly in doubt whether to continue their course,
or to make for the inviting thicket at their feet. At
length a huge veteran, whose heavy-branching antlers
gave an air of importance to his movements, walked a
few steps from the top of the hill ; one folloAved—
then another and another. From a walk, their pace
quickened to a trot, and in a few moments the whole
herd poured down towards the spot where the hunters
were standing. There was, however, a suspicion of
lurking danger in the actions of the leader ; for as
he bounded swiftly forward, his ears were pricked
up ; his head, high in the air, moved from side to
side as if in momentary fear of some hidden foe.—•
The rest, relying wholly upon his guidance, followed
frolicking and gambolling. They passed along the
border of the wood, and came close upon the two
men. From the moment that they had left the hill a
new flame had kindled in the eye of Herrick. His
fingers wandered round the trigger of his gun, and
then were jerked away, as if restrained by the con-
sciousness that danger might ensue. Still, as they
approached, his restlessness increased. “ I dare not
fire. Yet, how easily I might drop that leader !”
said he, raised his rifle to his cheek, and taking sight
along its barrel. “He is very near ; I might make
sure of him. There ! I have him now—exactly be-
hind the left shoulder. Norton! shall I puli'?”—
“ No, no ! I tell you no ! —Should there be Indians
about, your rifle crack would be sure to call them.—
Have you forgotten the foot-mark? ’Tis a warning
that should not be disregarded. Our lives are worth
more than a dead elk.” This answer seemed to carry
conviction with it. With a sigh, which showed how
great was the sacrifice, Herrick dropped the butt of
his rifle heavily on the ground. The animals still
advanced, though not as before. A feeling of inse-
curity had spread throughout the troop : their pace
was slow ; they crowded together ; every nostril was
expanded to the breeze, every eye on the watch, and
every ear open to drink in the least sound of danger.
Herrick again lifted his rifle. He grasped its barrel
with his left hand, and his finger again strayed around
the trigger. Slowly, and almost unconsciously, he
raised it to his cheek, and brought the muzzle to bear
upon the leader. “ Norton, did you ever see such
antlers ? He is not ten yards off. Ido not think
there can be much danger.” His voice, though sup-
pressed, reached the ear of the already startled beast.
Instantly his nose was raised higher, and his eyes
rested upon the spot from whence the sound proceeded.
“ There ! there ! Norton, he sees us ! By heaven !he
is turning away: we have no provisions—we shall
be starving to-morrow. He is starting.” Crack!
The sharp report of the rifle rang through the woods.
The singing of the bullet was heard, and the noble
beast fell forward on his knees. The effect upon the
rest of the herd was electrical. At first they crowded
round the wounded leader, snorting loudly: then,
apparently comprehending his fate, they scoured off
over the hills. The deserted beast sprang up, and
rushed madly forward in the direction they had
taken ; the leaps grew less and less; one more bound,
he landed on his feet —his legs tottered—they yielded


under him, aud he fell in the edge of the thicket, with
the death quiver running through his limbs “ Hurrah!
there’s elk meat for you !” shouted Herrick, drawing
his dirk. He thrust the bushes apart with the breech
of his rifle ; bounded through them • sprang over
the dead logs; and in a moment reached the spot
where the beast lay. “ ’Twas the act of a fool!”
muttered Norton, as he slowly prepared to follow.
“ Yet, the temptation was strong, and there’s hot
blood in that young frame. Perhaps, had they stopped
much longer, I too should have done the same.”
Thus, half musing, half speaking, he slowly advanced
to the edge of the thicket. Here he paused and
keenly surveyed the prairie before venturing from
the woods. Nothing was to be seen, and he -was in
the act of stepping out, when his ear w r as arrested
by a sharp sound, as of a dead twig breaking beneath
the tread of an animal. Quick as thought he
crouched, and peeped through the bushes, scanning
with a sharp eye every shrub and every tree trunk
around him. His fear had been awakened, and the
recklessness of his young companion, in discharging
his rifle, had increased his watchfulness. Every
thing, however, w r as quiet, and he was preparing to
rise from his concealment, when his attention was
caught by an unusual quivering of the leaves of a small
bush at a short distance, overgrown w r ith wild pea-
vines. He drew closer to his hiding-place. Pre-
sently the bush shook violently ; the dark painted
head of an Indian was protruded from beneath it;
a pair of naked shoulders followed ; and an Indian,
completely armed, emerged to view. With snake-
like silence he stole from tree to tree, slowly winning
his way towards Herrick. But though he moved
with all the instinctive craft of his people, he was
under the eye of one whom many years spent in these
wilds had rendered fully his equal. Inch by inch he
moved forward—the hunter did the same. Whenever
he paused and looked around, Norton crouched to the
earth—and again as he crept cautiously forward the
white followed. Some time had been consumed, and
Herrick was impatiently looking about for his com-
panion. The Indian watched him for an instant,
then rising behind the trunk of a large tree, fitted an
arrow to his bow. There was no time to be lost.
Norton sprang to his feet. The noise of the motion
caught the ear of the Indian. He turned, but too late.
He had but time to see the hunter’s yager pointed at
his body, ere a stream of fire poured from its mouth.
Its sharp report rang through the woods, and the
wild scream of the w r arrior, as he leaped in the air,
announced that its bullet had been a death messenger.
THE ABORIGINAL LANGUAGE.
PARADIGM OF THE ACTIVE VERB.
3 Conjugation. Indicative Mood , Present Tense.
SINGULAR.
Bun-tan,*
, bftng I strike some object now.
[ bi, Thou strikest.
\ n6-a, He strikes.
< bo-un-to-a She strikes.
j nga-li, This (at hand) strikes,
f nga-16-a That (close to thee) strikes.
' nga-la, That (spoken of) strikes.
PLURAL.
Bun-tan,*
! nge-en, We strike together some object
nfi-ra, Ye strike,
ba-ra, They strike.
DUAL.
IJU “- ia “,'
(ba-li, Thou and I strike, we both strike
some object.
ba-li no-a He and I strike.
\ ba-li bo-un-to-aShe and I strike.
I bu-la, Ye two strike.
\ bu-la bu-10-a-raThey two strike.
* Note. —When the object is to be specified, it must be
placed at the mark: as, Bun-tan bon bang, I strike him : but
a thing, thus, Bun-tan bang un ni, I strike this; so also in the
Plural and Dual.
2. Modification Reflective.
person of each number will be quite sufficient
to shew how to form the remainder.
See No. 1.
Bun-kil-le-un,
See No. 3.
/ bang, I have struck myself.
1 nge-en, We have, each one, struck
< himself.
j ba-li, Thou and T have, each one.
\ struck himself.
3, Modification Reciprocal.
See No 3.
Bun-kil-lan,
See No. 2.
iba-li, Thou strikest me, aad I strike
thee, or we two duel.
nge-en, We, each one, strike one' ano-
ther, or we fight with one
another.
Note —The 3 Modification can only be used to the Dual
and Plural being reciprocal action.
CONJOINED DUAL CASE.
B fin-tan,
/-ba-nung, I, thee strike, or, I strike thee,
ba-no-un, I, her strike, or, I strike her.
bi-ti-a, Thou, me strikest, or, thou strikest
me.
J bi-nung, Thou, him strikest, or, thou strikest
him.
bi-n 6 un, Thou, her strikest, or, thou strikest
her.
bi-16-a, He, thee strikes, or, he strikes thee,
-bfn-to-a. She, thee strikes, or, she strikes thee.
LEGISLATIVE COUNEIL.
WEEKLY ABSTRACT.
THURSDAY.
The Speaker communicated to the House a message
from His Excellency the Governor, to the Legislative
Council,together with the Estimates for the year 1845.
The message, consisting of the Governor’s lengthened
explanatory observations, was ordered to be printed
together with the estimates enclosed.
The Speaker communicated to the House a message
from his Excellency the Governor on presenting a
project of a law to settle the proportions in which
money shall be raised in each district of the colony
of New South Wales, by assessments for the purpose
of defraying half the expense of maintaining a police
force. Also a message on presenting a project of a
law to provide for the election of Councillors for the
District Council of Campbelltown.
The Colonial Secretary laid on the table returns
relative to the police and gaols, the territorial revenue,
and correspondence with the home government, which
was ordered to be referred to the Grievance Com-
mittee.
The House having resolved itself into Committee,
pioceeded to the consideration of the report of the
Select Committee appointed to consider what steps
should be taken with reference to Mr. Lowe’s state-
ment of the breach of the privileges of the House by
Alderman Macdermott and others. The chairman
(Dr. Nicholson) then read the report, which after re-
iterating Mr. Lowe’s statement of the facts of the case,


entered into a discussion of the law of Privilege,
without however coming to a fixed decision; con-
cluding by recommending “ that the Attorney-Ge-
neral be requested to move the Supreme Court for
leave to file a criminal information against them ;
and to prevent all doubt in future cases —that a bill be
passed to confer upon the Council such power as may
be considered necessary to its efficiency.”
After considerable discussion, and several motions
of amendments being negatived,
Mr. Bland moved an amendment to the effect that
the whole of the report preceding its last or recom-
mendatory clause should be adopted.
The amendment was put and carried.
Mr. Windeyer then moved that the first part of
the recommendatory paragraph, which recommended
the application of the Attorney-General for leave to
file a criminal information against the parties alluded
to, should be adopted.
Honorable Members having stated their opinions
for and against the motion, the question was put and
carried.
The Council then resumed, reported progress and
adjourned.
FRIDAY.
The House again resolved itself into Committee, to
resume the consideration of the Report of the Select
Privilege Committee, Mr. El win in the Chair.
Mr. Windeyer moved that the latter part of the
recommendatory clause of the Report recommending
that to prevent all doubt in future cases, a Bill be
passed to confer upon the Council such powers as
may be considered necessary to its efficiency” be
now adopted.
The Motion was carried after some discussion ; and,
the Council having resumed, the Chairman reported
on behalf of the Committee the adoption of the
Report.
Mr. Windeyer then proceeded to move “ that the
Attorney-General should be requested to apply for
leave to file a criminal information against Mr.
Alderman Macdermott, Dr. Macfarlane, and Captain
Moore, according to the terms of the Report.”
The Attorney-General was allowed until Wednes-
day, to give his decision upon this point.
The Colonial Secretary laid on the table the returns
showing the correspondence which had taken place
relative to the price of Crown lands.
Several Petitions having been presented, the Coun-
cil adjourned till three o’clock, p.m. on Wednesday
(yesterday.)
ORIGINAL CORRESPONDENCE.
DISTRICT COUNCILS.
To the Editor of the Colonial Literary Journal.
Sir—The institutions of these incorporations was in
itself, an act of legislative wisdom ; nothing can be
conceived more likely to promote the prosperity of a
people, than the management of their interests by
members of their own community. None will deny
this position, in the abstract, and those will be espe-
cially quick to perceive its truth, who have had much
communication with officials in Sydney—the delays
of office, as well as the Law's delay , being too often
destructive of the object in view.
But we may pay too dear for the whistle. The
attempt to impose double taxation forces this proverb
upon the attention of every thinking person ; at any
time, this attempt would be unjust, there being neither
law nor reason for it. If a community already con-
tribute their portion to the common treasury —and it
must be presumed that this is done—it is treating
them like a conquered people, like vassals, to exact
more ; it is putting them under a galling yoke, taxing
not their pockets only, but their patriotism ; for no
man can love his country, or in this case his country’s
rulers, if he be bowed down by extortion. This is
cause of half the misery of society, the abstraction of
an undue portion of gains, and consequently of com-
fort and happiness. Many feel the impolicy and
misery of exaction at this moment, and are step by
step descending to ruin ; the extortioner meanwhile
looking on, in the enjoyment (if such a reptile can
have enjoyment) of the falling man’s possessions.
But is it for the British government to be rapaci-
ous ? Where is the maternity of the relationship
between Britain and her colonies ! Where the fos-
tering care of her non-age dependencies, if she arm
her representatives with power to exact more than is
meet; by which they may rule their territories as
conquered provinces. The colonists must be unani-
mous in opposing the projects now under discussion,
which are intended to encrease their burthens, in the
shape of police expences.—Yours, &c.,
I. J. T.
To the Editor of the Colonial Literary Journal.
Sir—While perusing the numbers of your journa
which I have had as becoming a subscriber, my at-
tention was drawn to a rather questionable paragraph
noticing three lectures on Astronomy, which I had
the honor of delivering at the School of Arts, before a
highly respectable audience.
If the concluding part of this paragraph referred
to my first lecture only, I should not consider it pre-
mature, because the arrangements for working the
diagrams on the first evening were not on so com-
fortable a scale as the subsequent ones.
That the substance of my lectures (if noticed at
all) deserved better, a perusal of the manuscript will
evince, for it has been obtained from the writings of
a Newton, a La Place, the Herschells, &c., not super-
ficially, but studiously.
I have, moreover, been congratulated within a few
days since by some of my audience, whose education
and position in society, are sufficient to satisfy me,
that my humble efforts have not been altogether un-
successful. Your obedient servant,
T. L. DODD.
The Debating Society. —We have been looking
anxiously for the re-fonnation of the above Society
—in vain. If we remember aright, its former time of
meeting was coe-val with the Lecture Season ; com-
mencing when it commenced, and closing when it
closed. The present Session, however, is an excep-
tion to the rule. We would suggest to those who
formed its Committee during its last Season, that it
would be well to commence immediately, should they
intend to do so at all. As there are funds to a consid-
erable amount in the hands of the Treasurer, a very
small subscription would be sufficient to carry out its
operations for the remainder of the Season ; and there
are many who would gladly avail themselves of this
means of spending one evening during the week.


The Mayor’s Ball. —We understand that the
Mayor’s fancy dress ball will take place at the
Victoria Theatre. Invitations have been extended to
as great a number of the citizens as the Theatre can
conveniently accommodate. His Excellency the
Governor, Lady Gipps, and the elite of the city, have
signified their intention of honouring the ball with
their presence ; and we have no doubt that the first
municipal ball of Sydney will be something spirited.
The invitations have not been extended beyond the
limits of the city, except in the case of distinguished
visitors, representatives of the people, and the Mayor’s
immediate friends. The pit of the Theatre is to be
boarded over from the proscenium, under the direc-
tion of Mr. Knight, the lessee, who is making every
arrangement possible for the convenience and comfort
of the guests.
Appointment, —His Excellency the Governor has
appointed Hutchinson Hothersall Browne, Esq., to be
Registrar of the Court of Requests, at Sydney, in the
room of the late Mr. Richard Allen.
Shipping Intelligence.
ARRIVALS.
July 19.—The steamer Maitland, 103 tons, Captain Parsons,
from Port Macquarie, with wheat, &c.
July 20.—The steamer William the Fourth, 52 tons, Captain
Wiseman, from the Clarence 18th instant, with wool, &c.
July 21. —The schooner Martha and Elizabeth, 81 tons,
Captain Devlin, from Port Phillip, 16th instant, with sundries.
July 21.—The brig Sarah, 201 tons, Captain Mossman, from
Singapore 18th May, and Anjer 12th June, with tea, sugar, &c.
July 21.—The schooner William, 62 tons, Captain Freeman,
from Moreton Bay 16th instant, with cedar.
July 22.—The brig Louisa, 182 tons, Captain Tdcker, from
Hobart Town 16th instant, with sundiies.
July 22. —The brig Caroline, 113 tons, Captain Loten, from
Hobart Town, 13th instant, with sundries.
July 22. —The schooner Mary Ann, Captain Browne, from
Launceston 13th instant, in ballast.
DEPARTURES.
July 19.—The brig Dorset, Captain Walsh, for Adelaide,
with sundries.
July 19.—The steamer Shamrock, Captain Gilmore, for
Boyd Town, Port Phillin, and Launceston.
July 19.—The brig Diana, Captain Curphey.for the South
Sei Islands, via New Zealand, with sundries.
July 20.—The barque Georgetown, Captain Bell, for Guam,
with part of original cargo.
July 20.—The brig Guide-, Captain Adams, for New Zealand.
July 20.—The steamer Sovereign, Captain Cape, for More-
ton Bay with sundries.
Jnly 21.—The R.Y.S. schooner Wanderer, for Boyd Town.
July 21.—The schooner Terror, Captain Menzies, for Auck-
land, with sundries.
July 21—The schooner Edward, Captain Tallan for Boyd
Town, with sundries.
July 24.—The brig Christina, Captain Saunders, for Port
Phillip.
T3lrtl)S.
At the Wai-mate, on the 20th May, the wife of the Righ
Reverend the Lord Bishop of New Zealand, of a son. t
On the 16th instant, at her residence, Pitt-street, the wife
of F. W. Unwin, Esq , of a daughter.
On the 10th July, 1844, at Undercliff, the widow of the late
Francis Kemble, Esq., of a son.
On the 19th instant, at her residence, in Castlereagh-street
North, the lady of Arthur A’Becket, Esq., of a son.
Heaths.
On the 15th instant, at his residence North Shore, Mr. John
Paul, jun., aged forty-one years.
On the 15th instant, at Keshnagliur, near Parramatta,
Henry Gunton, Esq., late Captain of Her Majesty’s 50th
Regiment, aged 35 years.
On the 14th July, at the Manse, Bathurst, Mary Dickson,
infant daughter of the Rev. K, D. Smythe.
Alff KT OUJJC EXtSSHTT.
THE Undersigned begs to return thanks to his friends and
the public for the liberal support he has received
during the last eight years, and to inform them that, in conse-
quence of ill heal th, he has disposed of the whole of his interest
in the business lately carried on by him, as Bookseller and
Stationer, together with the Stock-in-trade, to his late assis-
tant, Mr. W. A. Coleman, for whom he solicits the same
patronage so liberally bestowed upon himself; feeling assured
that Mr. C. will, by strict attention to business, and keeping &
constant supply of the best articles, do everything in his power
to merit their support.
JAMES TEGG.
George street, Sydney, July 8.
WA. COLEMAN announces to his friends and the inha-
, bitants of the Australian colonies, that he has pur-
chased the entire Stock-in-trade of Mr. James Tegg, Bookseller
and Stationer, (opposite the Barrack-gate) Sydney, and hopes,
by strict attention to their orders, keeping a well-selected
stock, and moderate charges, to merit a continuance of the fa-
vours bestowed upon his predecessor.
W. A. C. feels confident that an experience gained in one of
the first wholesale houses in London, together with the
knowledge of the colonial business, (acquired during the period
of six years' at the head of Mr. Tegg’s establishment) combined
with the opportunities which he has of importing at the lowest
price, will enable him to keep up such a regular supply of
Books and Stationery, as to justify his hopes of giving satisfac
to all who may honour him with a portion of their patronage.
Sydney, 483, George-street,
Opposite the Barrack-gate.
July 23.
NOTICE.
JUST RECEIVED, ex Georgetown, and opened for inspec-
tion, at Mr. C. Chapman’s, 406, George-street, next door
to the Royal Hotel—
Four cases, consisting of rich^ blond bredes ; gold, silver, arid
pearl head dresses, coronets, wreaths and flowers, of very supe-
rior styles. Ladies are respectfully invited to inspect them for
the ensuing Ball.
In addition to the above, there are a few rich silks, satins,
satinets, ladies and infants’ ready-made linen, also, a few in-
fants’ tuscan hats.
The above have arrived in excellent condition.
dolontal Htttrarg journal,
AND
Weekly IVEiseellaay of Useful Xnformation.
THE TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION to this Journal
are, Three Shillings per Quarter, in Town ; Countty,
Three Shillings and Sixpence ; 'payable , in every case,
in advance.
Terms for Advertisements For one inch, and under,
Three Shillings; and One Shilling for every additional inch,
each insertion. Advertisements will be received until Two
o’clock on Wednesday afternoon; but cannot be withdrawn
later than Nine o’clock on Wednesday morning. Adver-
tisements must specify on the face of them the number of
times they are to be inserted, or they will be continued till
countermanded, and charged accordingly.
Parties signifying their intention of becoming Subscribers
to the Colonial Literary Journal, are informed that the first
numbers may be still obtained on application to their respec-
tive Agents, and at the Office.
Agents for tliis Journal.
Sydney, Mr. W. Jones, Circulating Library, Brickfield-hill.
Parramatta Mr. Hugh Taylor.
Windsor Mr - Walker.
Bathurst Mr. Tress.-
West Maitland Mr. Galloway.
Camden, Campbelltown, Penrith, and
Liverpool Mr. Lester.
Gunning Mr. Hawthorne.
