

COLONIAL
LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
“ NON TUA TE MOVEANT, SED PUBLICA VOTA.
Yol. I. No. 21.]
SYDNEY, THURSDAY, NOVEMBtfkfU, 1844.
[Price 4d.
A JUST LIBERALITY.
“ Bf. just before you are generous,” says the proverb,
and it is one of the many proverbs so remarkable for
aptness of expression, justness of application, and a
peculiar agreement with, and embodiment of, the ex-
perience of mankind. A just liberality, however, is a
virtue not always possessed, especially by the young.
The above maxim is frequently forgotten, and gene-
rosity exercised without a due regard to the correcting
arid nobler principle of justice. The most mistaken
ideas on this point sometimes prevail. The young
man, for instance, is eager, perhaps before he really
possesses anything, to earn the reputation of being
generous and liberal, without considering the result
which must probably ensue. He does not consider
that he must inevitably be called upon, sooner or later,
to shew that the gift is his own, or to supply every
deficiency which it may have occasioned ; nor —should
it be discovered to fc have been another’s, or found to
occasion distress to himself—does the world, a unfor-
tunately, view the matter in its just light: he is still
allowed to have been liberal and friendly, and the
kindest sympathy is afforded him.
“ Far be it from us (we proceed, in the words of
an excellent writer .in- Chambers' Journal ,) to counsel
a regular and rigid shutting of the heart against every
knock that comes to it from the finger of humanity.
All that we wish is, that generosity on every occasion
may be governed by justice —by the sense of what
is legally required of us, and of other claims which are
not only perhaps more imperative, though not so im-
mediate, but are those for which we are much more
truly responsible in a moral point of view. If, by
the exercise of an extravagant generosity, we injure
others who have depended upon our justice, we pro-
duce infinitely greater mischief than all that our gene-
rosity can prevent; for generosity seldom produces
more than a temporary relief, while the injury of others
tends to undermine and permanently destroy that basis
of confidence which upholds society. If, by one in-
judicious act of supposed kindness, we unfit ourselves
for permanently acting a kind and useful part amo
those who are less happy than ourselves, J ust
take the readiest means to deprive ourself the
habitual power of exercising that in which
we delight.
It ought to be recollected specially by the young,
that the funds which hvP en t° he m our hands, are
seldom properly o- s - 111 most instances, we are
merely steward’ for the benefit of the true owners.
And yet, l - jVV little is this attended to ! Out of a
spirit of ostentation— f the most contemptible of
our passions—we to give away, among a list
of splendid donations, that which should be appro-
priated to the just liquidation of our debts. If we
thus blindly give away, or, by imprudent engage-
ments, run the risk of having to give away, what is
not our own, and acquire thereby the superficial repu-
tation of generosity among the many, while the in-
jured few suffer in secret, we commit two robbeiies at
once —a positive and a negative —for we both take
from others their actual property, and we get ourselves
invested with a kind of approbation not due to us,
and which shows at the expense of those who are not
so inconsiderately liberal.
There is another kind of generosity which we
would condemn, for it has wrought incalculable mis-
chief. This is the exercise of a spirit of public im-
provement or patronage, at the expense of others.
Flow many lamentable instances could be brought
forward of men having ruined themselves, their fami-
lies, and their creditors, by acting in what is called a
public-spirited way upon a large scale. It is generally
assumed, that if these men had not possessed the
liberality ascribed to them, certain matters of general
importance would never have been carried into effect.
Literature would have languished—or it would have
been elsewhere ; trade would not have been so pros-
perous ; the arts could never have been encouraged in
the way they have been ; and a great number of men
of genius would have been condemned to their native
obscurity. This is all mere shortness of sight. Better,
we say, that things were left to find their own way, or
even to retrain for ever at one. point, than that any
temporary impulse should b- given to them, at the
expense of a number of individuals ; and the effect of
which is almost sm- 10 be ost as soon as that impulse
is no longer followed up. What does it matter where
trade lies— men of genius are enabled to live—
or the arts are encouraged ? If it only be
som nvhere, that is enough. We have known a harbour
tuilt by a private gentleman, at an expense of twelve
thousand pounds, in a situation where ten thousand
times that sum would never have generated a trade—
and all from a mere local prepossession. In the same
way, numerous instances occur of men who acquire a
character of transcendant greatness, from overtrading
upon the means of others, and doing those things
which no other person, from prudence, would under-
take. Such men, after having ruined hundreds by *
unfulfilled engagements, and, perhaps, engrossing the
I business of thousands by their extravagant liberality


of dealing, will still receive a slavish veneration from
mankind, as if they had been great public benefactors.
Men do not see that, so far as there was a natural
and healthy scope for trade, others w r ould have taken
advantage of it, if the liberal gentleman had not done
so; and, in all probability, by acting with more
prudence, would have ultimately done much more
general good.
The truth is, it is only the just man who can be
properly liberal. It is only he who possesses, or has
a chance of possessing, the means to be so, without
injury to himself, to his creditors, and to the world.
To us, the spectacle of a young and affectionate per-
son who gives merely because it is asked, and never
calculates the balance between the good of giving and
the saved evil of withholding, is one of the most la-
mentable in the world, and liable to become one of
the most pernicious. But what a different thing it is,
to behold the man who first assures himself that he
can satisfy every legal and moral claim, and then
bestows, from his fullness, what he thinks will do
others more good than himself, and what no one that
depends upon him, by however different feelings in-
spired, has any title to grudge ! Many give because
they think it selfish to withhold. But in doing so,
they in reality indulge themselves more selfishly than
they would do by taking the most miserly care of
their money. On the one side, in short, are passion,
self-indulgence, heedlessness, and infinitely more
chance of mischief than of good. On' the other, are
principle , abstemiousness in the luxury, as it has been
too truly called, of doing good, the best chance of
real ability to benefit our friends, true wisdom, and,
what always consists exactly with wisdom, a right
morality.”
Biography.
THE ADMIRABLE CRICHTON.
Abstract of the Life of him by Lord Woodhouselee.
James Crichton was born in the year 1561. He was the
eldest son of Robert Crichton, of Eliock, who filled the im-
portant office of Lord Advocate of Scotland, first to Queen
Mary, and afterwards to King James. The mother of Crichton
was Elizabeth Stewart, daughter of Sir James Stewart of
Beath. Ilk family was noble, and high in various offices.
The young Crichton having received the rudiments of his
grammatical at Perth, or according to another au-
thority at sent to improve himself in philo-
sophy and the sciences Andrews, at that time the most
celebrated and learned semina, v i n Scotland. The rank and
fortune of his father enabled bifn his son, who was
already remarkable for the early jnaturivj c f his talents and
the beauty of his person, the instruction oNu most learned
men of the time. His master was Rhutherford,Y»<w OSt 0 f g t
Salvator’s College, Hepburn, Robertson, and, at a
Buchanan, one of the most illustrious scholars at that tut*.
Europe, The progress of Crichton was suitable to the emi-
nence of his instructors, and to the celebrity which lie
was afterwards destined to acquire. In the year 1573, when
he had hardly passed his twelfth year, he took his degree as
bachelor of arts ; and in two years afterwards, such appear to
have been his high attainments in the different branches of
scholastic knowledge, that he received his degree, as master of
arts, at the very early age of fourteen.
The different students in the University of St. Andrews
were at this time, previous to their taking their degres as
mssters of arts, divided into what were termed circles, accord-
ing to the talents and proficiency which they exhibited in the
examinations which preceded the talcing their degrees. The
first circle comprehended those of the very highest attainments
in the University. The second, those whose proficiency,
although eminent, was not so comparatively conspicuous ; and
so on through the different divisions of talent. It is a remark-
able circumstance, as it establishes the great and early endow-
ments of Crichton, that at the age of fourteen he takes his
degree of master of arts in the first circle, being the third in
the circle, that is, being in talents and attainments the third
scholar at that time in the University; a circumstance which,
if we consider the early age of Crichton, sufficiently proves the
strength and precocity of those talents which were afterwards
to figure so conspicuously upon a wider field in Italy.
Having evinced this extraordinary proficiency, Crichton
does not appear to have imagined that his labours were to
finish with the honours he had there won, or that the period
of study was in any way concluded. His success only in-
creased his ardour; and the labours of those early and boyish
years were rapid, as in the case of Pascal and Clairault, by
attainments which would have been remarkable in a scholar of
the most advanced age, and the most laborious application
He soon accomplished himself in the various branches of the
science and philosophy of the times; and, by the force of
natural talents, assisted, as they must have been, by intense
application, acquired the use of ten different languages. At
this period, and, indeed, till a much later date, it was the
custom of our Scottish gentlemen to finish their education by
foreign travel, to acquire, in the army, and in an intercourse
with foreign camps and courts, that military and political
knowledge, which might afterwards render them serviceable in
tbe wars and the councils of their country. Crichton was ac-
cordingly sent by his father to the continent, at a very early
age, probably in his sixteenth or seventeenth year. The
purpose of his going abroad was, not only to improve himself
by the sight of different countries, and to display, as was the
custom in these times, the extent of his erudition in the public
disputations which were then extremely common in the uni-
versities of the continent, but also to finish his education in
the schools of France and Italy.
The young Crichton had not, as we have already seen, been
ungrateful to nature for those early talents with which he was
intrusted. He had laboured to increase, by every effort of his
own, his acquisitions in knowledge and science; and nature
had, in return, been prodigal to him of those gifts, which no
individual exertion can command. She had given him a form,
which, while it was active and powerful, was remarkable for
its admirable symmetry and proportion; and a countenance
which, from the account of all who had seen him, was a model
of manly and intelligent beauty. To these endowments was
united a most remarkable quickness and aptitude in the ac-
quirement of all the elegant accomplishments which were
fitted to exhibit his person to the greatest advantage, and in
which the young Scottish nobility of the day were^educated.
The same ardent desire of excellence, and enthusiastic perse-
verance of cultivation, which had led him on to eminence in
his severer studies, contributed to render him equally superior
to^ s youthful compeers in all the martial exercises of that
chivalry age. The sc i ence 0 f the sword was, at this time,
most cultivated, both in our own country and on
the continent. n -* as t h e wea p on t 0 w i,i c h a n appeals of
honour were made; anau 5 pro fessor S (for to this high appel-
lation its teachers aspired) w.. cted (0 e i u( . idate its diff(3re „ t
branches, and to demonstrate its vo.; ous rules and evo)ue i„ ns ,
by the application of geometrical principle Crichton became
one of the most expert and fearless swords« en 0 f i,j s t i rae


He rode with consummate grace and boldness; and in the
gentler accomplishments of dancing, an excellence upon which,
even in our own days, (if we may believe a noble author,) so
many grave and serious consequences depend, he is recorded
to have been a very admirable proficient. To these various
attractions there was added still another, which, in the pleasure
it was calculated to bestow, was not inferior to any that has
been mentioned—a strong genius for music. He had, from
nature, a sweet and finely modulated voice; and had attained
to great excellence in performing on a variety of musical in-
struments. They who are enthusiastic in this delightful science,
and who have felt the deep and inexplicable influence which
it possesses over our nature, will not be at a loss to estimate
the power which his skill in music must have given to the
young and handsome Crichton, in attracting esteem and com-
manding admiration.
Thus fairly and excellently endowed, Crichton set out upon
his travels, and directed his course first to Paris, eminent, at
that period, not only for the distinguished learning of its public
professors and scholars, but for the splendour and gaiety of its
court. It was the custom in those days, both in France and
in other continental countries, to hold public disputations, in
which the learned men of the age contended with each other
on the most abstruse questions of the science and philosophy
of the times. To Crichton, no fairer opportunity could be
presented than what these public disputations offered, for
obtaining distinction. He had already accomplished himself
in the studies which furnished the topics of discussion. He
had acquired the use of many both of the dead and living lan-
guages ; and he possessed the manners and figure, not of a
pedant who had immured himself in the cloister of his college,
but of a finished gentleman, who had made books not so much
his task as his recreation. Soon after his arrival in Paris, he,
accordingly, in obedience to the custom of the times, affixed
placards, or challenges to literary and philosophic warfare, on
the most conspicuous parts of the city, engaging that, at the
expiration of six weeks from the date of the notice, he should
present himself at the college of Navarre, to answer upon
whatever subject should there be proposed to him, “ in any
science, liberal art, discipline, or faculty, whether practical or
theoretic; and this in any one of twelve specified languages.
A challenge of this nature, from so young a person, to dispute
with the most profound and learned scholars in France, could
not fail to excite astonishment; and it was pretty generally
expected that the stranger would decline the contest, under
the pretence that his challenge was nothing more than a pas-
quinade against the University. The disputation, however,
took place. Crichton, in the presence of an immense concourse
of spectators, presented himself in this eminent seminary, en-
countered in argument the gravest philosophers and divines,
who had assembled on the occasion, acquitted himself to the
astonishment of all who heard him, and received the public
praises and congratulations of the president and four of the
most eminent professors in the University.
But what seemed particularly to increase his triumph, and
to embitter the defeat of those who attempted to cope with
him, was the light and easy negligence, and the utter contempt
of preparation, which he evinced before the contest. The
court of Henry the Third of France was, at this time, one of
the most gay and gallant in Europe. In the midst of national
distresses, which might have sobered any reflecting monarch,
and civil commotions which embroiled the country, the whole
mind of the sovereign seemed to be occupied in the invention
of the most expensive shews, and the arrangement of the most
magnificent public festivals. Tourneys, where the knights
jousted against each other—courses at the ring—tilting
against the Saracen, and many other gallant amusements,
accompanied with all the pomp and circumstance of chivalry,
were at this time the favourite occupations of the king; and it
is easy to imagine how acceptable such public shows must have
been, to the genius and disposition of Crichton. In the feats
of arms which there led to distinction, he was calculated, both
by the natural beauty of his figure, and the uncommon skill
which he had acquired, to outstrip most of his competitors ;
we need not therefore wonder, if, instead of betaking himself
to his study, he shone pre-eminent in all the gay amusements
and elegant accomplishments of the age. He was to be found
in the ball-room, in the hunting-field, in the riding-house ;
and, the day after that in which he had astonished the most
learned and able professors, by a display of such universal
talent and erudition, he appeared, with all the fire and fresh-
ness of youth, at a tilting match in the Louvre ; and here,
with consummate skill and address, in presence of many of
the ladies and princes of the court of France, he carried off
the ring from every competitor, and remained victor in that
martial accomplishment which was then so ardently cultivated
in this country of chivalry.
He became now anxious to accomplish himself as a soldier ;
and for this purpose, although his design of travelling to Italy
rendered any long continuance in it impossible, he entered
into the French service, where he became, after serving for
two years in the civil wars, which at that time depopulated
France, an experienced officer, and rose to an honourable com*
mand in the French army.
After two years residence in France, Crichton determined to
continue his travels into Italy, at this time the centre from
which all that was most remarkable in philosophy, in literature,
and in the fine arts, had emanated throughout Europe. He
first travelled to Rome ; where, emboldened by his success in
France, and in obedience to the manners of this age of literary
rivalship, he took an early opportunity of publishing a similar
challenge, to that which he circulated in Paris : and, on a day
appointed, in presence of the Pope and many of the different
cardinals, with a numerous audience, amongst which were
many of the most learned men of the times, he presented him-
self to vindicate the pledge which he had given; and, as we
are told by his biographer, again astonished and delighted the
spectators, by the display of the most universal talents.
After a short residence at Rome, he next repaired to Venice,
where he made the acquaintance'of Aldus, the famous printer.
At Venice he astonished every body as he had done elsewhere.
The following is an account of him by an anonymous native
author: —
“The Scotchman,” says this unknown writer, “whose name
is James Crichton, is a young man of twenty years of age upon
the 19th of August last. He is distinguished by a birth-mark,
or mole, beneath his right eye. He is master of ten languages.
These are, Latin and Italian, in which he is excellently
skilled ; Greek, in which he has composed epigrams ; Hebrew,
Chaldaic, Spanish, French, Flemish, English and Scotch ; and
he is also acquainted with the German. He is deeply skilled
in philosophy, in theology, and in astrology; in which science
he holds all the calculations of the present day to be erroneous.
On philosophical and theological questions, he has frequently
disputed with very able men, to the astonishment of all who
have heard him. He possesses a most thorough knowledge of
the Cabala. His memory is so astonishing, that he knows not
what it is to forget; and, whenever he has once heard an
oration he is ready to recite it again, word for word, as it was
delivered. He possesses the talent of composing Latin verses,
upon any subject which is proposed to him, and in every
different kind of metre. Such is his memory, that even though
these verses have been extempore, he will repeat them back-
wards, beginning from the last word in the verse. His orations


are unpremeditated and beautiful. He is also able to discourse
upon political questions with much solidity. In his person he
is extremely beautiful. His address is that of a finished gen-
tleman, even to a wonder ; and his manner, in conversation,
the most gracious which can be imagined. He is, in addition
to this, a soldier at all points, (soldato a tutta botta,) and has,
for two years, sustained an honourable command in the wars
of France. He has attained to great excellence in the accom-
plishments of leaping and dancing, and to a remarkable skill
in the use of every sort of arms ; of which he has already given
proofs. He is a remarkable horseman, and breaker of horses,
and an admirable jouster, (giostratore singolare.) His extrac -
tion is noble; indeed, by the mother’s side, regal; for he is
allied to the royal family of the Stuarts. Upon the great
question of the procession of the Holy Spirit, he has held
disputations with the Greeks, which were received with the
highest applause ; and, in these conferences, has exhibited an
incalculable mass of authorities, both from the Greek and
Latin Fathers, and also from the decisions of the different
councils. The same exuberance is shewn, when he discourses
upon subjects of philosophy or theology; in which he has all
Aristotle and the commentators at his finger ends (alle mani.)
St. Thomas and Duns Scotus, with their different disciples,
the Thomists and Scotists, he has all by heart, and is ready to
dispute on either side ; which talent he has already exhibited
with the most distinguished success : and, indeed, such is his
facility upon these subjects, that he has never disputed, unless
upon matters which were proposed to him by others. The
Doge and his consort were pleased to hear him; and, upon
doing so, testified the utmost amazement. He also received
a present from the hands of his Serene Highness. Upon the
whole, he is a wonder of wonders ; in so much so, that the
possession of such various and astonishing talents, united in a
body so gracefully formed, and of so sanguine and amiable a
temperament, has given rise to many strange and chimerical
oonjectures. He has, at present, retired from town to a villa,
to extend two thousand conclusions, embracing questions in
all the different faculties, which he means, within the space of
two months, to sustain and defend in Venice, in the church of
St. John and St. Paul; not being able to give his attention
both to his own studies and to the wishes of those persons who
would eagerly devo e the whole day to hear him.”
(To be concluded in our next.)
AFFECTATION.
Article No. I. — Artificial Wit.
We sometimes meet with persons who would rather
be witty than wise, and who think it preferable to
appear flash, rather than modest and unassuming.
Yet, in spite of their desire to pass as Wits, nature has
not endowed them with the qualities necessary to
sustain the character; but, on the contrary, these
ambitious fops are frequently persons to whom she
has been rather sparing than lavish in her best boon,
common sense. Unfortunately, they are very seldom
aware of this deficiency. They observe how much
admired and distinguished the man of brilliant parts,
ready repartee, and lively imagination is, and thinking
that these shining qualities are within the reach of
every one, they themselves set up for Wits, and seek
to obtain popular applause by affecting a character
which, if possible, is, at any rate, exceedingly difficult
of attainment.
Affectation is foolish and hateful in any one, but
seldom is it more intolerable and disgusting than in
the man of weak parts, who is trying to pass as witty
or talented. We ean scarcely conceive a more ridi-
culous situation than his, whe", having just attempted
to shoot one of his most brilliant flashes, he bursts
into boisterous laughter at his own witticism, and
looks round on the company with an air of triumph,
to see its effects on them, and receive their applause ;
and finds that, instead of having “ astonished the
natives,” and raised their admiration and applause,
their lips are curled in contempt, while he has the
pleasure of admiring and complimenting his own
brilliance. Such behaviour from the listeners must
certainly be a cutting reward for the coruscations
which had cost so much trouble in their creation, and
such effort in their display ; and we might expect that
such a chilling atmosphere would freeze the current
of vanity in the silly aspirant; but the deficiency of
common sense which caused the attempt, now covers
the failure, and disregarding, or rather not perceiving,
the laugh of scorn and disgusted sneers of his audience,
he prides himself that their silence is not because they
do not admire, but because they are waiting for more
of the same sort, so be sets off again with stimulated
spirit, and tries to monopolize the attention of the
company by his meteoric adventures, endeavouring
to strike fire from an intellect in which there neter
was a spark, until the company can bear his pre-
sumption no longer, but scout him from their presence
as an insupportable blockhead.
There are some of this class who imagine that bold
profanity and scurrility may pass for wit. Of this
stamp “ the city of the soiith ” sometimes produces
specimens. Some of our readers may remember the
newspapers announcing “ splendid fun 4 ’ a short time
since, at one of the city saloons, to which people were
attracted by the promise of extempore wit in great
variety, and as a specimen of the talent which would
be exhibited, the announcement was headed with a
text of Scripture ! We smile with contempt at the
person who thinks that buffoonery will pass for wit;
but where shall we find language to describe our
unspeakable disdain and disgust—yes! the unutterable
resentment which we feel at him who affects the Wit,
by impious audacity and blasphemous raillery. “ Read,
mark, and inwardly digest.”* What, pray ? Why,
nothing less than the prostitution of God’s holy word,
marked too as a quotation! Well, what a splendid
scintillation of genius is this! Surely, such a dis-
play of wit as that, given beforehand, was proof of
the genuine quality and rich flavour of what was to
follow. “ Inwardly digest,” eh! Alas, that stomach
must be in a loathsome, and awfully diseased state,
which could digest such vile impiety as that. To
affect the Wit by such means as audacious profanity
and impious boldness, is what should excite the in-
dignation of every one. No better are his attempts
who affects the Wit by that low and indecent language
which is very aptly designated “ smutty”—the loath-
some discharge of a diseased mind—the fetid scales
which encrust the putrid heart, like the scabs which
disfigure the skin of the leper. We should imagine
that few would affect the Wit by such a method as
this, and yet it cannot be denied that among the
class of tavern-going evening club-ites, there are some
* This, instead of being a quotation from the Holy Scrip-
tures, is taken from that scarcely-less-than-inspired produc-
tion, the Book of Common Prayer. [See the Collect for the
second Sunday in Advent.'] The indignant remarks, however,
° ,?^ r worth y Contributor, are by no means out of place, and
will lose little of their force by an error so venial. —Ed. C.L.J.


who claim to themselves this character, because they
can, by impudent recitalsand blackguardly expressions,
raise a laugh and excite the mirth of their boon com-
panions.
There is another mode in which this character is
attempted which discovers itself, not by any bold and
preconcerted attempts, nor yet, by any dirty or dis-
gusting boldness, but by a constant effort to sparkle,
a regular and continued attempt to say smart things
u in the small way”—or trying to appear witty by
intentional mistakes and misapprehensions, and excite
a laugh or attract observation by imbecility of mind,
and dulness of comprehension. This character takes
the directly opposite course to the first we alluded to,
for whereas the first affects the wit by assuming greater
talent than be really has—the latter affects the wit by
appearing shorter of sense, and duller of comprehen-
sion than he really is. The one by the appearance
of superior genius, the other by the display of unna-
tural foolery. This character will submit to almost
any degradation for the amusement of the company ;
they may make him the butt of their railleries, and
insult him by their sarcasms, he will gladly submit to
all their indignities, and appear in situations the most
humiliating, if by so doing, he can amuse the company
and excite their merriment. He foolishly imagines
that by acting the ridiculous, he can pass for a wit;
that by playing the monkey, he can raise his character
as a man ; that, by wading through the cess-pool of
short sense, he can attain the eminence of popular
admiration. And does such a one attract attention,
and excite merriment ? He does, but it is the atten-
tion of persons as worthless as himself.
“ Look, fool, look—look at your brother:
W by should not one fool look at another.”
Does he raise their laugh ? He does—but it is the
gratifying exultation of satirical triumph ; he was
willing to be a martyr for their amusement, so they
deck d the willing sufferer in the incongruous medley
of their various follies, and then laughed at the “ goose”
of their formation—their tool meanwhile gratified at
his humiliation because they call him witty for causing
their merriment—thinking that sufficient recompense
for prostitution of the understanding, and degradation
of the mental powers. Nor are we in these remarks
describing an affectation of character which is never
met with ; there are some, we are convinced, whose
presence m superior society is only tolerated on account
of the amusement their voluntary imbecility affords
ihe vivacity of intellect and brilliancy of thought
which form the true wit, are qualities conferred by
nature and inherited by birthright. It is possible to
attain, by extensive knowledge, and attentive obser-
vation of men and manners—a smartness of conver-
sation nerve of expression ; and profundity of thought ;
but cultivation the most assiduous, though it may
help to develop, yet can never create the genuine wit.
ihat is a brilliance not produced by laborious polish,
but a spontaneous coruscation of intellectual fire, a
dazzling burst of unpremeditated lustre. It is an
essential characteristic of wit that it is spontaneous-
effort and study consequently can never produce it.
Wit is like steel, collision with some other hard sub-
stance is necessary to develop the fire, but no sooner
is it struck than,
I l(, rtb fljes the all dart.”
aml'exritni"f' V lU>h,e ’ e "« in S »iih its brilliance,
and exciting by its warmth. Tin true, that wit is a
dangerous power, especially in persons of a satirical
disposition ; it is an attribute seldom allied to a
benevolent mind, still less frequently to friendship,
but often found located near the waters of bitterness ;
it is a light which may dazzle by its lustre, but it is
the lustre of a falling star, short in its duration, with
its course generally towards the horizon, and seldom
toward the zenith, while its warmth and animation
die with its setting. Genuine wit, unless attended by
kindness and gentleness of manner, is a talent scarcely
to be desired—if then such is the value of genuine
genius, how worthless, beggarly, despicable, disgust-
ing, and degrading is it, when only artificial!
FEDERICK.
History.
ANCIENT HISTORY: SECTION XX.
STATE OF THE ARTS IN GREECE.
1. It is not among the Greeks that we are to look
for the greatest improvement in the useful or the
necessary arts of life. When we speak of the
eminence of this people in the arts, we are understood
to mean those which, by distinction, are termed the
fine arts, or those which mark the refinement of a
people, and which come in the train of luxury. In
agriculture,manufactures, commerce, they never were
greatly distinguished. But in those w'hich are termed
the fine arts —architecture, sculpture, painting, and
music, Greece surpassed all the contemporary nations
and the monuments of these which yet remain, are
the models of imitation, and the confessed standard
of excellence, in the judgment of the most polished
nations of modern times.
2. After the defeat of Xerxes, the active spirit of
the Athenians, which would have otherwise languished
for want of an object, taking a new direction from
luxury, displayed itself signally in all the works of
taste in the fine arts. The administration of Pericles
was the era of luxury and splendour. The arts broke
out at once with surprising lustre, and architecture,
sculpture, and painting, were carried to the summit
of perfection. This golden age of the arts in Greece
endured for about a century, till after the death of
Alexander the Great.
3. The Greeks were the parents of that system of
architecture which is universally allowed to be the
most perfect.
The Greek architecture consisted of three distinct
orders; the Doric, the lonic, and Corinthian.
The Doric was probably the first regular order ;
it has a masculine grandeur, and a superior air of
strength to both the others. It is therefore best
adapted to works of great magnitude and of a sub-
lime character. The character of sublimity is essen-
tially connected with chasteness and simplicity. Of
this order is the temple of Theseus at Athens, built
ten years after the battle of Marathon, that is, 481
years before the Christian era: a fabric which has
stood upwards of 2,300 years, and is at this day
almost entire.
The lonic order is light and elegant. The former
has been compared to the robust and muscular propor-
tions of a man ; the latter to the more slender and de-
licate proportions of a woman. The character of this
order is likewise simplicity, which is as essential a
requisite to true beauty, as it is to grandeur and
sublimity. The lonic admits with propriety of de


corations which would be unsuitable to the Doric.
Of this order were constituted some of the noblest of
the Greek temples; particularly the temple of
Apollo at Miletus, that of the Delphic Oracle, and
the superb temple of Diana at Ephesus, classed among
the wonders of the world.
The Corinthian marks an age of luxury and mag-
nificence, when pomp and splendour had become the
predominant passion, but had not yet extinguished
the taste for the sublime and beautiful. It had its
origin at Corinth, one of the most luxurious cities of
Greece; and was, probably, the production of an
artist who had to effect the greatest splendour and at
the same time to preserve a grandeur and beauty of
proportions. It attempts therefore a union of all
these characters, but satisfies not the chastened
judgment, and pleases only a corrupted taste. Of
this order were built many of the most splendid
temples, particularly that of Jupiter Olympus at
Athens, founded by Fisistratus, but not completely
finished till 700 years after, under the reign of Adrian.
Its remains are yet very considerable.
The characters of the three orders of Grecian
architecture have been happily distinguished by the
Poet of the Seasons *. —
‘ First unadorn’d,
And nobly plain, the manly Doric rose; •
The lonic then, with decent matron grace,
Her airy pillar heaved ; luxuriant last
The rich Corinthian spread her wanton wreath.’
Thomson's' Liberty, Pari 2.
4. The Tuscan and the Composite orders are of
Italian origin. The Etruscan architecture appears
to be nearly allied to the Grecian, but to possess an
inferior degree of elegance. The Trajan pillar at
Rome is of this order. This magnificent column has
braved the injuries of time, and is entire at the
present day. Its excellence consists less in the form
and proportions of the pillar, than in the admirable
sculpture, representing the victories of Trajan over
the Dacians, which decorates it.—The composite
order is what its name implies; it shews that the
Greeks had in the three original orders exhausted
all the principles of grandeur and beauty; and that
it was not possible to frame a fourth, but by combining
the former.
5. The Gothic architecture, which is often found
to produce a striking effect, offers no contradiction
to these observations. The effect which it produces
cannot be altogether accounted for by the rule of
symmetry or harmony in the proportions between the
several parts ; but depends on a certain idea of vast-
ness, gloominess, and solemnity, which are powerful
ingredients in the sublime. Of this order is the
cathedral of Milan, one of the noblest Gothic struc-
tures in the world.
6. Sculpture and painting were brought by the
Greeks to as high a pitch of perfection as architec-
ture. The remains of Grecian sculpture are at this
day the most perfect models of the art; and the
modern artists have no means of attaining to excel-
lence so certain as the study of those great master-
pieces. \
The excellence of the Greeks in sculpture may
perhaps be accounted for chiefly from their having
the human figure often before their eyes quite naked,
and in all its various attitudes, both in the Palcestra ,
and in their public games. The antique statues have
therefore a grandeur united with perfect simplicity,
because the attitude is not the result of an artificial
disposition of the figure, as in the modern academies,
but is nature unconstrained. Thus, in the Dying
Gladiator, when we observe the relaxation of the
muscles, and the visible failure of strength and life,
we cannot doubt that nature was the sculptor’s
immediate model of imitation.
8. And this nature was in reality superior to what
we now see in the ordinary race of men. The con-
stant practice of gymnastic exercises gave a finer
conformation of body than what is now to be found
in the vitiated pupils of modern effeminacy, the
artificial children of modern fashion.
9. A secondary cause of the eminence of the
Greeks in the arts of design, was their theology, which
furnished an ample exercise for the genius of the
sculptor and painter.
10 We must speak with more diffidence of the
ability of the Greeks in painting, than we do of their
superiority in sculpture; because the existing speci-
mens of the former are very few, and the pieces which
are preserved are probably not the most excellent.
But in the want of actual evidence, we have every
presumption that the Greeks had attained to equal
perfection in the art of painting and in sculpture ; for
if we find the judgment given by ancient writers of
their excellence in sculpture, confirmed by the universal
assent of the best critics among the moderns, we have
just reason to presume an equal rectitude in the
judgment which the same ancient writers have pro-
nounced upon their paintings. If Pliny is right in
his opinion of the merits of those statues which yet
remain, the Venus of Praxiteles, and the Laocoon of
Agesander, Polydorus, and Athenodorus, we have no
reason to suppose his taste to be less just, when he
celebrates the merits, and critically characterizes the
different manners, of Zeuxis, Apelles, Parrhasius,
Protoge nes, and Timanthes, whose works have perished.
11. The paintings found in Herculaneum, Pompeii,
the Sepulchrum Nasonianum at Rome, were probably
the work of Greek artists ; for we have no evidence
that the Romans were ever eminent in any of the arts
dependent on design. These paintings exhibit great
knowledge of proportions, and of the chiaro-oscuro ;
but betray an ignorance of the rules of perspective.
12. The music of the ancients appears to have been
very greatly inferior to that of the moderns.
13. The peculiar genius of the Greeks in the fine
arts, extended its effects to the revolutions of their
states, and influenced their fate as a nation. They
consoled themselves for the loss of their liberty by
the flattering distinction of being the humanizers of
their conquerors, the unpolished Romans.
A LEGEND OF BRITTANY.
BY ALEXANDER SUTHERLAND.
The wind is high on Helle’s wave,
As, on that night of stormy water,
When love, who sent, forgot to save
The young, the beautiful, the brave,
The lonely hope of Sestos’ daughter.
. Bride of Abydos.
“ She will come at last: lam sure she will come,
though all the bolts and bars in Brittany should
intervene to keep us asunder. On such a night—the
last I shall pass in France for many, many months —
she cannot, will not, disappoint me. O Renee, dear
and long-loved, Heaven speed the ship that brings
me back to bear you away from this shore for ever!”


The soliloquist, a young 'Englishman, was pacing
impatiently to and fro under the shadow of a high
wall which surrounded an extensive garden in the
environs of St. Servan. He was closely muffled in a
boat-cloak ; but the outline of a manly and symme-
trical figure was distinguishable; and the glance which
he ever and anon directed to a small casement in a
summer-house that commanded a view of the spot he
was traversing, expressed the independence and fire of
a lofty character. The last gleam of day yet lingered
in the west; but towards the zenith, the stars sparkled
in multitudes. A thousand lamps glimmered among
the dusky roofs of St. Malo, which, in that dim
twilight, resembled a mighty mural pyramid piled
up on the bosom of the sea. The monotonous lashing
of the billows on the seaward ramparts smote mourn-
fully on the ear ; but blended with their incessant
roar were many cheerier sounds. The shouts and
laughter of the groups of merry boatmen, who beset
the Dinantgate, swept over the still waters of the
inner basin ; the watch dog’s faithful bark came
encouragingly from many a distant orchard and
tobacco °field ; and the faint tinkling of a guitar
floated at intervals on the breeze. But the young
Englishman lingered not there to watch for star or
lamp, nor to listen for watch dog’s bay or guitar’s
tinkle. A pair of bright eyes, looking down from the
casement of the summer-house —a sweet voice mur-
muring “ Edward ”■—was the only sight or sound
that his soul desired. He was to depart on the
morrow for his native land. His absence from
France, the country of his beloved, must, he knew,
necessarily be protracted ; and his heart bled to think
that he had no alternative but to leave his beautiful
Renee behind him, exposed to the homage of his
many rivals, and the machinations of a cross old
duenna, who very cordially hated England and all its
inhabitants.
Renee Duchastel, the object of his regard, had
pledged herself to grant him a brief - interview on
this evening. Actuated by the fervour of his feel-
ings, which were not easily subdued at any time, he
had repaired to the place of meeting long before the
appointed hour, and had consequently sufficient
leisure to practise the art of self-tormenting. He
was meditating the hazardous enterprise of vaulting
over the wall into the garden, when a slight noise
in the summer-house occasioned him to pause; and,
shortly after, the casement was cautiously unclosed.
The starlight enabled the keen glance of the im-
patient lover to recognise the face of his mistress,
though half concealed by the thick veil in which
prudence had induced her to envelop it; and he
pressed his hand on his heart with a rapturous ges-
ture. Words of passionate endearment flowed like a
torrent from his lips; and it is hard to say when the
fountain of tenderness would have been exhausted,
had not the melodious voice of his lady-love entreated
him to subdue his transports, unless he wished her
instantly to fly his presence.
“ I will, I will, Renee,” he exclaimed • “ Yet how
is it possible for a heart burning with love like mine
to reduce its expressions to the cold standard of
maidenly propriety ? I have been loitering here a
full hour, conjuring up for my torment a host off
images sutficient to drive any man, save a Dutchman,
to distraction. Even now, though l hear your sweet
voice, and\see about a fifth part of one of your eye-
brows, I hardly feel secure of your presence. What,
in the name of everything adverse to a devoted lover,
detained you, gentlest?”
“ A barrier that threatens to separate me for ever
from Edward,” replied Renee; “ the watchfulness-of
my suspicious old aunt. But for her lynx eyes, I had
kept my engagement to the moment. Just at sunset,
when I was thinking of you and the summer-.house,
she bethought herself of a long prosing tale about the
dungeons of Mont St. Michel; and scarcely was it
finished, when'indropped M. Caignon with his guitar.”
“ Death to the trifier !” exclaimed the Englishman ;
“ was it his crotchets and quavers that robbed me
so long of your sweet society ? But let me not vilify
an absent man—though I do wonder how smiles like
thine should ever fall to the share of such a lover.”
“ Is it not much more surprising, Edward,” said
Renee, “that I should bring myself to bestow a
smile, and something more than a smile, on a strange
Englishman, whom I have known only a few weeks ?
M. Caignon is not the trifier you represent him. He
plays and sings to admiration, has the gift of ven-
triloquism to a wonderful degree, and, besides, has
served in Spain.”
“ From which I assisted to drive him and his
compatriots,” said the Englishman; “but I shall
turn gasconader, like himself, Renee, if you extend
your enumeration of his accomplishments. I admit
that Caignon is well enough in his way, but certainly
not a man worthy of one kind glance from those
beautiful eyes.”
“You are jealous, Edward, and without cause,”
said Renee. “I neither care for M. Caignon nor
his guitar.”
“ But your aunt may wish you to look kindly on
him?” said Edward. “ And when lam gone, who
can promise that you will not forget me ?”
“ Forget you for the sake of M. Caignon !” said
Renee. “Keep you.r mind quite easy on that point; for
my aunt entertains no such friendly intentions towards
him as you seem to apprehend. It is that old cross-
tempered vision of dry bones, Ducliesnois, who has
her entire approbation.”
“The scarecrow!” exclaimed the Englishman.
“ If I had him but for five seconds in my grasp, I
would squeeze him into a mummy, to which, as it is,
he bears no distant resemblance. But what of hkn
Renee? Surely he cannot have the unpardonable
audacity to aspire to the hand of my fair girl.”
“ You have guessed it,” said Renee ; “ and my
worldly-minded aunt, who worships him for his
riches, abets his suit with ajl.her influence. In two
months, according to her decision, I must choose
between him and a novice’s cell in the convent of
Saint Anne. Now which alternative would you
recommend ?”
“ Unfortunate that I am,” said the Englishman,
“how can I decide? I dare not encourage you to
calculate on my return for many months ; and whi t ler
you choose the gloom of a convent, or the arms of a
dotard, you are equally lost to me.”
“ No very serious loss, Edward,” whispered Renee.
“ An unkind insinuation at such a moment/’ said
Edward. “Do not trifle with me, dear one ! Inform
me, in pity, what answer you returned to this barba-
rous proposition.”
“ That I would commence my noviciate to-morrow,
if such were her pleasure.”


“ 0 Renee!” said the youth, “ and must our
sincere and ardent attachment be thus extinguished ?
Am I to be cast a wanderer on the w 7 orld, banished
for ever from the presence of my soul’s chosen ?
Must that fair face fade, that warm heart turn
prematurely cold, within the cheerless walls of a
convent Early death to both were a kinder
destiny.”
“ Hear all I have to say, Edward,” said Renee,
“ before you give yourself up to despair. You have
sworn a thousand times that you love me, and I—
believe it. Go to your own country—to your father’s
home ; tell him that a young girl of Bretagne, not
very rich, but of a noble ancestry, holds your heart
in pledge, and entreat him to agree to our union.
When you have obtained his consent, return with all
speed, in some brave English barque, to San Malo.
Anchor far off in the bay ; and, when the mantle of
night falls on the shore, steer your small boat into
the Ranee, and land under the steep cliffs near the
gardens of the convent of Sainte Anne. At the ex-
tremity of those gardens, there is, as you well know 7 ,
/or I have pointed it out to you from the river, a
hollow tree, which I discovered when a boarder in
the convent. You are brave, and have agility suffi-
cient to enable you to clamber up the rock, and leap
the garden wall. Have a letter previously prepared,
suggesting some mode of escape, and deposit it in the
hollow tree. Trust to my finding it within twelve
hours after you have placed it there, and also to my
strictly adhering to any instructions it may contain.
I shall visit the tree every day during your absence ;
and when you come at last, neither wall nor rock
shall intimidate me. Your boat will quickly bear us
beyond the batteries of San Malo; and once on board
your gallant ship, I shall bid my cross aunt, old
Duchesnois, and even dear Bretagne itself, farewell,
with a joyful heart. England and Edward shall then
be all the world to me. But”—and her voice fal-
tered—“ if you return not, Edw'ard, before the leaves
of next spring are sear on the hollow 7 linden, return
no more. I shall then be a nun, or in my grave.”
“ If Heaven grants me life,” said the Englishman
vehemently, “ I will return long, long before that
period. It is a romantic project, my Renee ; but
fortune leaves us none more feasible. In the con-
vent, you will, in the interim, be exempted from the
persecution of Duchesnois ; and mine be the care to
rescue you from a living death within its walls.
Often, often, when far away, rocked on the salt sea,
or lingering perforce in merry England, shall I think
of the linden tree, and the grate of Sainte Anne !”
And of the chapel at the vesper hour, Edward,”
said the simple girl; “ and the beautiful shrines, with
their many tapers burning lonely and silently ; and
the choral hymn and solemn responses, that rise night
and morning from behind the dark bars that inter-
pose between a nun and the wrnrld, for ever.”
“Of all, of all,” said the Englishman. u They
shall constantly be present to my mind. At matin
and at vesper hour, my heart shall be inseparable
with Renee.”
u And now,” said Renee, “ since we fully under-
stand each other, I must hasten back to my chamber
without delay. To tarry longer with you would
only risk discovery of our plans, and perchance lead
%o a perpetual separation. Hark ! lam sure I hear
my name shouted by some one in the garden. It is
that prying minion, Jeanette, and I must fly. Adieu,
friend of my heart! Remember Renee!’’
“ One kiss ftf that white hand,” said the lover,
“ and then I vanish.” He waited not for permission,
but made a sudden spring, and caught hold of the
frame of the window. Renee was startled, but not
displeased, and not only granted the boon he desired,
but a still more indubitable token of affection. A
shrill voice, at the very door of the summer-house,
calling on Mademoiselle Renee, warned him not to
linger, how r ever great might be the temptation ; and
he dropped down from the window as suddenly as he
had vaulted up to it. Ere he had time to recover
himself, the casement closed, and Renee had vanished.
* * *■ * *
Time rolled on. The leaves on the hollow linden-
tree opened under the genial influence of spring, lived
through a long parching summer, and, in the first
days of autumn, began to turn sear, and die. All
was bustle and triumph in the convent of Sainte
Anne, for a novice of great beauty and rank was about
to dedicate herself to the special service of Heaven, at
its altar. No news could have been more interesting
to the inhabitants of St. Servan—no ceremony a
cause of greater exultation among the antiquated
sisterhood, who, one and all, derived a malicious,
perhaps it ought, in charity, to be called a holy
gratification, from witnessing an addition to their
number. Old Baron Dugas, who had eaten horse-
flesh in Russia, in the absence of better fare, along
with the “ Emperor,” and who regularly displayed
his star of the Legion of Honour and Cross of St.
Lazare once a-day in the Grand Place, had his faded
uniform brushed up for the occasion. Monsieur Le
Brun, the wine merchant, sent to St. Heliers for a
new bonnet for his English lady, in order that she
might appear as gay as her more recently expatriated
countrywomen ; and Madame Le Roi, who lets
chambres (jarnies during her husband’s absence at the
Newfoundland cod-fishing, wasfull twenty-four hours
in arranging her coif. Multitudes poured in from
the adjacent country : some from Dinar, on the oppo-
site bank of the Ranee : some from Cancale, of oyster-
gorging celebrity : some from St. Suliac, St. Jouan,
and St. Pere ; and some even from Dol and Chateau-
neuf, with the venerable marquis at their head. The
English, heretics though they were, did not escape the
infection. Madame Banko, with a galaxy of beauty
in her wake, swept down like bird of paradise from
the princely chateau of Versailles : some scores of
captains, naval and military, followed, each with a
wife, and some with a couple of daughters tucked to
their skirts. Even honest Pat Heatly himself was
routed out of his den in the college, where, being but
a “ boy” of fifty, he had voluntarily incarcerated
himself for the purpose of completing his' education.
It was a fete-day, in short, at St. Servan ; and the
whole population, natives and foreigners, were equally
on the alert to partake of the amusement which the
immolation of a beautiful girl at the shrine of bigotry
w r as expected to afford.
All hearts, however, are not equally selfish and
cold. There were individuals, who, notwithstanding
their respect for an intolerant creed, did not scruple
to lament, that one so young, and so eminently
formed to shed joy around her, should be destined to
pine her life away in conventual solitude. Some
went so far as to aver, that she would not approach


the altar a willing victim—that her heart was sad
even unto death at the prospect before her—and that
at vespers, her low r and plaintive voice echoed through
the dim aisles like the song of a prisoned bird.
Whether such were really the case, the sister-
hood best could tell ; but, though they might suspect
that she bewailed her destiny, they could not com-
prehend the extent of her grief. They knew not that,
early and late, she had visited the hollow linden-
tree —that she had watched with humid eyes the leaves
on it unfold and perish ; but had watched in vain for
the return of her English lover. She thought him
cruel-hearted —faithless; and, with the gloomy re-
signation of despair, prepared to take the vows that
were to rend asunder every link that bound her to
the world.
But on the day preceding that W'hich had been
appointed for her profession, a wonderful change took
place in her deportment. Some friends, who attended
in the chapel at vespers, affirmed that they could dis-
tinguish her voice in the choir behind the grate,
much fuller and sweeter than they had ever heard it
before ; and this, of course, was sagaciously attributed
to inspiration, and a foietaste of that solemn and
uncloying happiness, which the priests described as
awaiting her in her sanctified vocation. Even the
cunning sisterhood, albeit deeply experienced in the
art of fathoming the depths of unsophisticated hearts,
knew not how to account otherwise for so miraculous
a change. Little did they dream that the novice, in-
stead of contemplating with holy serenity and joy
the approaching ceremony, was actually meditating
fl’ght with her English lover, and perpetual exile
from her native country. On that morning she had
paid what she had intended should be her last visit
to the hollow linden-tree. She went to it with a
faltering pace and desponding heart, for the idea of
Edward’s inconstancy and cruel desertion filled her
fond breast with unutterable grief; but she returned
to her cell with a bounding step, and joyously panting
bosom ; for, in the cavity which she had so often
searched in vain, she had found the long-expected
letter from her truant knight. Her Edward—and
tears filled her beautiful eyes while she read his fond
epistle— w'as as devoted and faithful as w'oman could
desire. Insuperable obstacles had occurred to pre-
vent him from returning sufficiently soon to redeem
his promise ; and bitterly had he bewailed them : but
he had arrived at last with a stout vessel in the offing ;
and, provided she were still contented to share his
fortunes, would be at the linden-tree at midnight to
bear her away.
Renee laid the blessed letter close to her beating
heart that pure heart whose every beat was love.
Never had the hours appeared so leaden-winged as
on this eventful day. She thought the lazy sun was
miraculously arrested in its course, and that he would
never sink beyond the bluff precipices of Cape Frehal.
Her little head was half crazed by the many plans
successively invented and rejected, as to the manner
in which she w'as to elude the vigilance of the sister-
hood, and effect her liberation ; for a huge door in-
tervened detween the cloister and the gardens, which
was regularly locked at vespers, and the key as regu :
larly consigned to the custody of the lady abbess.
Renee was a favourite with the old lady, and fre-
quently remained in her apartment, for the purpose
of talking and reading her asleep, long after the less
favoured sisterhood had retired to repose. On this
evening, she prayed with fervency that her services
might not be dispensed with ; and fortune for once
proved propitious. The abbess was more than
usually garrulous—talked over the levities in which
she had indulged when a belle at the court of Maria
Antoinette, with more pleasure than repentance—
sipped an extra demitasse of undiluted eau-de-vie ,
and then dropped into a lethargic dose. Renee felt
the crisis of her fate had arrived, for the important
key was now completely at her discretion. She took
possession of it the moment the old dame began to
sound her nasal trumpet; and, without lamp or taper
stole noiselessly from the room, along the dark pas-
sages that led to the oaken barrier. The lock of the
door was obdurate ; but love lent unusual strength to
her delicate lingers, and the key at length revolved
in the wards. To prevent immediate pursuit, in
case her flight should be discovered before she had
time to descend the cliffs, she relocked the door on
the outside, and then darted like a newly liberated
dove towards the hollow linden-tree. As she
approached it, a dark figure reared itself on the other
side of the garden-wall, which was built on the
verge of a lofty cliff overhanging the Ranee.
“Edward b’—“ Renee !’’—were the only words that
passed between them, ere the arms of her w andering
lover were twined around her.
Alas, that such a tale should end in tears! They
held but short colloquy in the garden, for every
moment was pregnant with danger, as lights were
already blazing in almost every window of the
convent. Edward assisted her to scale the garden-
wall, and supported her, not without imminent peril
to both, down the precipitous steep, to the brink of
the river. Ihe wind blew fiercely from the south ;
the thunder rattled in interminable peals directly
overheard 5 and the Ranee, hurrying to the sea with
the rapidity of a torrent, sent forth an ominous moan.
Renee shuddered at the fury of the wind and the
| irresistible gush of the water. She knew that they
! mu st venture in a frail boat far into the open bay,
and her womanly heart foreboded disaster ; but she
dared not, wished not, to falter in her progress. The
Englishman, though seriously apprehensive himself,
endeavoured to reassure her, and, in some measure,
succeeded. Two stout British sailors manned the
boat, and a dear friend and countryman, who had
been his companion in many an enterprize of danger,
sat at the helm. Edward lost no time in lifting the
slninking girl into the boat ; and the rowers instantly
stretched to their duty.
1 hough the wind blew tempestuously, there was
neither foam-bell nor billow on the Ranee. The
stream shot down like an arrow'; and no sooner were
they fairly exposed to its strength, than they were
borne along with frightful velocity. Edward knew
that rocks were scattered in their course, and he
W'hispered to the steersman to hold nearer to the
western bank, w'hile, at the same time, he endeavoured
to keep a sharp look-out ahead ; but the helm was
powerless in such a current ; and no human glance
could -penetrate the murky chaos into which they
were darting. In the mouth of the harbour of St.
Servan, there lies a low' rock, round which the out-
setting tide sweeps with terrific violence. On that
rock the unfortunate boat was dashed. The sentinel
who, on that night, kept watch at the arsenal, heard


one loud, long shriek rise, from the bosom of the
liver, and mingle with the blast. He looked stead-
fastly over the swelling waters, and beheld, by the
lightning’s gleam, human faces lifted for an instant
above the flood. He listened and looked again ; but
heard only the sullen gush of the river, as it rolled
on in blackness, and saw only the ragged rocks that
shoot up through its bosom.
■%. %
At an early hour on the following morning, the
chapel of Sainte Anne was crowded with hundreds of
spectators, anxious to witness the profession of the
young novice. Many a fair face was turned up m
prayer at the minor shrines : many a young Breton
endeavoured to penetrate, with his keen glance, the
sanctuary that lay beyond the grand altar. The
chapel was fitted up with unusual splendour. Relics
of miraculous virtue covered every shrine : massive
crucifixes of silver were ostentatiously displayed ;
and innumerable perfumed tapers, and censers filled
wfith incense, sent up a rich odour to heaven. For a
time, the multitude remained in silent expectation.
Several of the attendant priests, in gorgeous sacerdotal
robes, knelt before the grand altar, momentarily
crossing themselves with devout gesticulations. At
length, a priest entered from the nunnery, and held
some conversation, in an under tone, wfith his brethren.
While he spoke, a general stare of surprise and
dismay w 7 as visible on the countenance of all who heard
him. They crossed themselves more frequently than
ever, and piteously turned up their eyes in conster-
nation and wonder. The congregation were impatient
to obtain a solution of this mummery ; but an habitual
reverence for the place and the performers restrained
any indecorous expressions. At length, the most
venerable of the holy fraternity advanced, and, in a
voice of trepidation, stated, that a mysterious circum-
stance had occurred to postpone, if not altogether to
prevent, the ceremony which his hearers had con-
gregated to witness. The novice had been spirited
away during the night: whether by the agents of
heaven or hell he could not take upon himself to
decide ; but he sincerely trusted, for her own sake,
and the honour of Sainte Anne, that she had been
esteemed worthy of the special interposition of
Heaven, as there w r as good reason to conclude that her
sojourn on earth had terminated. Her veil, and parts
of her drapery, had been discovered adhering to the
thorns and brambles that vegetated in the crevices of
the precipice at the extremity of the garden ; and
various other circumstances conspired to strengthen
the supposition, that she had found a grave in the
Ranee. The congregation listened, in mute amaze-
ment, to the priestly harangue ; crossed themselves
sympathetically with the speaker ; and then hurried
out of the chapel, in order to give unrestrained vent
to the conjectures and regrets which such an extra-
ordinary incident was calculated to awaken.
The fate of Renee Duchastel remained a mystery to
the inhabitants of St. Servan for ten days. At the
expiration of that period, the waters of the Ranee
gave up their victim. Her corpse was w r ashed ashore
on the western bank of the river, near the little village
of Dinar ; and, on being identified, was carried,
under the superintendence of the priests, to the convent
of Sainte Anne. Some ungenerous doubts were
promulgated respecting the mode in which she had
met her death ; but the sisterhood, alarmed for the
credit of their establishment, declared that she had,
on many occasions, manifested a tendency to
somnambulism ; and every sincere Christian, there-
fore, was bound to believe that she had wandered
into in her sleep, and from thence inadver-
tently stepped over the cliff into the river. A swarm
of priests supported this asseveration with all their
influence, strenuously averring, that she had died in
the odour of sanctity ; and as no person, who trembled
at the idea of excommunication, dared to gainsay
them, her remains, after having received all the
purification that religious ceremonials could affect,
w r ere interred in the adjacent cemetery, where a black
cross still marks her grave. But of her English
lover no trace was ever discovered. Man knows not
w T here his limbs decayed : whether they gorged the
monsters of the deep, in caverns covered eternally by
the waves ;or w r ere stripped by birds of prey, in some
solitary bay of that tide-worn coast. He who narrates
their tale of love and death w T as the friend and
confederate of Edward ; the companion who, on that
eventful night, acted as steersman of the ill-fated
bark in w r hich they perished, and the only one of all
on board who escaped the grasp of death. The boat
was staved and overwhelmed at the instant that her
prow touched the rock. The survivor heard but one
shriek—the shriek of Renee—ere he found himself
struggling companionless in the torrent. A stout and
expert swdmmer, he combated successfully with the
tide ; and, by great exertion, reached the shore. Ap-
prehensive of the consequences, should the share he
had in this disastrous enterprize be discovered by the
authorities, r he sought shelter with an English gentle-
man, resident at St. Servan, to whom he w as partially
known ; and, through this friendly interposition, w r as
enabled to elude detection, and satisfy the police
regarding his mysterious arrival in France. The
melancholy termination of his friend’s adventure
naturally prepossessed him against the country in
which it had happened •, and he availed himself of
the earliest opportunity to depart. He remained
long enough, however, to ascertain that all search for
the body of Edward was in vain ; and to see the last
obsequies over the grave of hapless youth
and beauty.
Varieties.
Doubting.—When there is a great deal of smoke and no
clear flame, it argues much moisture in the matter; yet it
witnessed), certainly, that there is fire there; and therefore
dubious questionship is much better evidenceJthan that sense-
less deadness which most take for believing/ Men that know
nothing in science, have no doubts. He never truly believed,
who was not made first sensible and convinced of unbelief.
Never be afraid to doubt, if you only have the disposition to
believe; and doubt, in order that you may end in believing
the truth.
Letter Writing.—“ Let the heart speak.” In this brief
sentence lies the whole art and mystery of letter writing. Yet
not one person in fifty, even among the more highly educated
classes, is in full possession of that art—of that beautiful and
invaluable accomplishment. “It was the wisdom of ancient
times,” observed Seneca, “to consider what is most useful'or
most illustrious.” And Dr. Johnson said, “if this rule be
applied to works of genius, scarcely any species of composition
deserves more to be cultivated than the e|&stolary style; since
none is of more various or frequent use through the whole sub-
ordination of human life.”
Good mannersYs the art of making those happy with whom
we converse; whoever makes the fewest persons uneasy is
the best bred man in'tlie company.


The Moralist.
MASTERS AND SERVANTS.
Repine not, O man, at the state of servitude : it is the ap-
pointment of God, and hath many advantages; it removeth
thee from the cares and solicitudes of life.
The honour of a servant is his fidelity ; his highest virtues
are submission and obedience.
Be patient, therefore, under the reproofs of thy master ; and
when he rebuketh thee answer not again. The silence of thy
resignation shall not be forgotten.
Be studious of bis interests, be diligent in his affairs, and
faithful to the trust which he reposeth in thee.
Thy time and thy labour belong unto bim. Defraud him
not thereof, for he payeth thee for them.
And thou who art a master, be just to thy servant, if thou
expecteth from him fidelity; and reasonable in thy commands,
if thou expectest a ready obedience.
The spirit of a man is in him; severity and rigour may
create fear, but can never command his love.
Mix kindness with reproof, and reason with authority : so
shall thy admonitions take place in his heart, and his duty
shall become his pleasure.
He shall serve thee faithfully from the motive of gratitude ;
he shall obey thee cheerfully from the principle of love : and
fail not thou, in return, to give his diligence and fidelity their
proper reward.
MORAL MAXIMS.
ALPHABETICALLY ARRANGED.
NO. 21.
A woman and a glass are never out of danger.
A wonder lasts but nine days, and then the puppy’s eyes are
open.
A word and a stone, thrown away, do not return.
A word before, is worth two behind.
A wounded reputation is seldom cured. t
A young man idle, an old man needy.
Bacchus has drowned more than Neptune.
Bachelors’ wives and maids’ children are always well taught.
Bad as it is to be fawned upon, it is better than to be bitten.
Bad books are the public fountains of vice.
Bare walls make gadding house-wives.
Base manners will soil the finest clothes.
Slander. —How frequently is the honesty and integrity of
a man disposed of by a smile or a sbrug. How many good
and generous actions have been sunk into oblivion by* a dis-
trustful look, or stamped with the imputation of proceeding
from bad motives, by a mysterious and seasonable whisper.
Look into companies of those whose gentle natures should dis-
arm them, we shall find no better account. How large a
portion of chastity is sent out of the world by distant hints'—
nodded away, and cruely winked into suspicion by the envy of
those who are past all temptation of it themselves. Flow often
does the reputation of a helpless creature bleed by a report,
which the party who is at the pains to propagate it, beholds
with so much pity and fellow-feeling—that she is heartily sorry
for it—hopes in God*it is not true —however, as Archbishop
Tillotson wittily observes upon it, is resolved in the mean
'time to give the report her pass, that at least it may have fair
play to take its fortune in the world—to be belieYed or not,
according to the charity of those into whose hands it may
happen to fall.
There is no mark of the absence of the highest moral
and intellectual qualities than a cold reception of excellence.—
Bailey.
Reproof. —Choose a fit time for that reproof which effective
benevolence demands. If a failure have taken place on the
part of any individual toward you, avoid mentioning it at the
moment, for nothing you can say will cause that not to have
happened which has happened. The tendency of your obser-
vations will naturally and necessarily be to produce suffering on
his part, and that ill humour towards you which is the result
of his suffering. If a similar occasion is likely to occur, then
and then only, just before the occasion, if you see a prospect
that your interposition will be of use, is the time for recalling
to his mind the firmer failure. The effect will thus be
influential at the moment it is wanted,.and all the intermediate
suffering will be spared. But remember, that of uselessreproof
pure evil is the consequence,—evil certain and considerable,
in the humiliation of the person reproved,—evil contingent,
in the loss of his amity, and exposure to his enmity.— Bentham.
Select Poetry.
RECOLLECTIONS.
HON. MRS. NORTON.
Do you remember ali t ie sunny places,
Where, in bright days long past, we play’d together ?
Do you remember all the old home faces
That gather’d round the hearth in wintry weather ?
Do you remember all the happy meetings,
In summer evenings round the open door—
Kind looks, kind hearts, kind words and tender greetings,
And clasping hands whose pulses beat no more ?
Do you remember them ?
Do you remember all the merry laughter;
The voices round the swing in our old garden:
The dog that, when we ran, still follow’d after ;
The teasing frolic sure of speedy pardon :
We were but children then, young happy creatures,
And»hardly knew how much we had to lose—
But notv the dreamlike memory of those features
Comes back, and bids my darken’d spirit muse.
Do you remember them ?
Do you remember when we first departed,
From all the old companions who were round us,
How very soon again we grew light-hearted,
And talk’d with smiles of all the links which bound us?
And after, when our footsteps were returning,
With unfelt weariness, o’er hill and plain ;
How our young hearts kept boiling up, and burning,
To think how soon we’d be at home again ?
Do you remember this ?
Do you remember bow the dreams of glory
Kept fading from us like a fairy treasure ;
How we thought less of being famed in story, *
And more of those to whom our fame gave pleasure.
Do you remember in far countries, weeping,
When a light breeze, a flower, hath brought to mind
Old happy thoughts, which till that hour were sleeping,
And made us yearn for those we left behind ?
Do you remember this ?
Do you remember when no sound ’woke gladly,
But desolate echoes through our home were ringing,
How for a while we talk’d—then paused full sadly,
Because our voices bitter thoughts were bringing?
Ah me ! those days—those days ! My friend, my brother,
Sit down and let us talk of all our woe,
For we have nothing left but one another ;
Yet where they went, old playmate, we shall go—
Let us remember this.
THE LOVER PRAYETH NOT TO BE DISDAINED,
REFUSED, MISTRUSTED, NOR FORSAKEN.
SIR THOS. WYATT
IGtii Century.]
Disdain me not without desert,
Nor leave me not so suddenly;
Since well ye wot that in my heart
I mean ye nought but honestly.
Refuse me not without cause^why:
For think me not to be unjust,
Since that by lot pf fantasy
This careful knot needs knit I must.
Mistrust me not, though some there be
That fain would spot my steadfastness ;
Believe them not, since that ye see
The proof is not as they express.
Forsake me not till I deserve;
Nor hate me not till I offend :
Destroy me not till that I swerve:
But since ye know what I intend,
Disdain me not that am your own ;
Refuse me not that am so true ;
Mistrust me not till all be known ;
Forsake me not now for no new.


potter.
The Editor does not hold himself responsible fur the opinions and
assertions contained in the correspondence and contributions in-
serted in the Colonial Literary Journal.
j&ottce to Correspondents.
X.‘s last communication cannot receive insertion in our pages. It
is left at the Office.
G. F. P. is informed that he can be accommodated at the Office.
Our Correspondents are requested to observe that the Colonial
Literary Journal Office is now removed foNo. 316, Pitt-
street North, (opposite A. Foss' Chemical Drug, and Grocery
Establishment) where all communications to the Editor may be
forwarded (post paid).
OBSERVATIONS ON SALT.
In common conversation we are apt to speak of salt
in a very limited view, whereas the chemical phi-
losophers of the present day have given this term to
an unnumbered class of combinations. As each of
the three alkalies and many other alkaline substances
will form salts by combining with the whole body of
acids, the most celebrated chemists have thought
proper to consider every crystal, whose base is an
acid, as a salt.
There are two kinds of common salt, rock or native,
which requires no other working than the digging or
cutting it out of the earth ; and sea or bay salt, as it is
called by the workers, which includes all kinds of
common salt which is extracted from the .w'ater con-
taining it by means of the sun’s heat alone. Salt
that is extracted from the water by boiling is called
white saU, which appearance it attains by that pro-
cess. Rock salt is abundant in almost every country.
Extensive mines of it are found in Poland, and also
in England in the county of Cheshire. Most of the
salt used at table is supplied from the land sources.
Bay salt is easily crystallised by the heat of the
sun ; for this purpose a reservoir is formed com-
municating with the sea by means of a sluice, in
which the salt water must be kept for some days in
order to become quite clear before it is let into the
receiving vessels, which are generally made a few
inches deep, when the water will evaporate and the
salt is gathered into baskets and left to drain.
The salt extricated by boiling is more expensive,
but it is far purer, and also preferable for keeping
provisions. This salt, with the addition of whey kept
for several years until it is extremely acid, is used for
the Dutch and Hamburgh beef and herrings, which
a e so noted for their long preservation and their
tender texture.
After the common salt is extracted from sea -water,
the remainder which is called bittern, is boiled down
wiih sulphuric acid, and another salt is then produced,
familiar to us as epsom salts. This name -was given
because this salt was first discovered in a salt spring
at Epsom, in Surry.
One of the sublimities of nature is manifested in
the character of this multitudinous class of salts,
namely, that each individually assumes its peculiar
form of crystal. During the process of evaporation,
particle after particle attaches itself to another until
the natural form is effected. This interesting turn of
nature is equally exhibited in the laboratory of the
chemist, the museum of the mineralogist, and the
casket of the lapidary. The term crystal signifies ice,
and was adopted because it is a principle in nature
that every substance in changing from the liquid into
the solid form becomes colder. The richness of
colour, brilliancy, lustre, and durability, of some of
those crystals called precious s f ones must ever excite
our admiration. Their estimation in ancient times
was manifested by the frequent mention of them in
the sacred writings, more especially as chosen to be
a fit resemblance of many portions of the glorious
kingdom that awaits us in after life, shewn in the
emblematic vision of the same, and recorded in the
Apocalypse of St. John.
These beautiful gems are composed of different
kinds of earths or metals. Unseen by us they are
gradually dissolved by water, and again unseen by
us the water is drawn away from them, and passes
through other pores of the earth, leaving there pecu-
liar portions in the form of crystals. Water is
continually passing through the different strata of
the earth, and in its progress unites with all substances
capable of being dissolved, and as the water evaporates,
these melted portions will become transparent, and
partake of the colours which the several ingredients
thus dissolved have the property of conveying.—
Coloured crystals are found in great beauty in the
mountains of Cairn Gorm, in Scotland. Rock
crystal or quartz is found in great perfection in
Cornwall, and called Cornish diamonds. Opal is
found in Hungary. The varieties of these precious
crystals is inconceivable, and as in salts and metals,
every one has its specific form, and the substance is
known by the shape of the crystal, a beautiful
example of that “ unerring wisdom which has ordered
all things aright.” The slower the progress the more
perfect will be the crystal found, therefore, those that
are most perfect,such as the diamond and the sapphire,
are most scarce. As the inhabitants of this colony
are only now beginning to look into the bosom of this
portion of our mother earth, and as one gem has been
before us, there is good reason to anticipate, at an
early period the discovery of some long hidden gems,
which may prove to us as good as the long sought
philosophers stone. Nil desperandum. B.
PHRENOLOGY.
[For the Colonial Literary Journal.]
No. XV.
At the recent interment of the deceased wife of
Robert Burns, the tomb of the poet was opened to
admit the remains of his Jean to repose beside the
ashes of her husband. An opportunity was thus
afforded of obtaining what had long been desired by
phrenologists—a cast of the skull of the national
po£t of Scotland.
Ihe skull was found in a state of the greatest pre-
servation, and such was its extreme size, that the
largest hat in the company was too small to admit it.
The developement corresponded in a remarkable
manner with the character and genius of the poet,
and must be regarded as a triumphant evidence of the
truth of Phrenology. The character of Burns as a
man had been perfectly known, and his genius as a
poet fully appreciated long before ; his craniological
developement was now before the public, to test the
truth of the doctrines of the science, which were
simple, and could be applied by all to the case in
question without great difficulty ; and unless the
agreement between his developement and character
was striking and conclusive, what an excellent oppor-
tunity was afforded to the opponents of the science to


overthrow its doctrines, and to expose to public ridicule
and contempt the philosophy of quacks, as they
styled men whose only fault in searching after truth
in the high-ways of nature, was, perhaps, by their
doctrines not to flatter them ! A science which stands
such practical tests as this, and not only without
suffering in the least, but actually receiving greater
lustre from the ordeal which it undergoes, must surely
be based upon truth.
The temperament of Burns wag nervous-bilious,
the most powerful combination of the simple tempe-
raments. This of course could not he ascertained by
examining his skull, but is knowm by the description
of his person while living,—by his fiery dark glancing
eyes, —by his firm and expressive lips, and his strongly
marked and swarthy countenance. Such a tempera-
ment, united to a peculiarly large developement of the
organs of feeling, more particularly of Benevolence,
Amativeness, Philoprogenitiveness, and Adhesiveness,
heightened by a large Ideality, accounts for that soul
of flame so essential to a real poet, and with which
Burns was gifted in so eminent *a degree—the cause
at once of his greatness and misfortunes. His manly
independence of mind may be referred more imme-
diately to his predominant Self-esteem and Conscien-
tiousness, which made him spurn at whatever was
servile or mean, and the language of which we trace
so often throughout both his prose and poetical writings.
The nervous lyric beginning—
“ Is there for honest poverty
That hangs his head, and a’ that;
The coward slave we pass hirn by :
W'e dare be poor for a’ that.”
bespeaks the sentiments of his independent spirit far
better than could the most learned dissertation. The
terms of perfect equality, upon which Burns—although
but a poor ploughman who had gotten a knack of
making or jingling rhymes, as he says himself —
placed himself with the literati and distinguished
characters of the age, while at Edinburgh, was owing
to his large Self'esteem and powerful intellect, which
gave him a just perception of his own abilities, and a
thorough confidence in them. Hope is the most
deficient organ in his head, while Firmness is but
moderate ; the want of a due proportion of the latter
is very apparent in his life, he had not the power to
resist such temptations as operated upon his large
propensities ; his love of company, the result of his
powerful faculty of Adhesiveness, dragging him into
dangerous, and, in the end, fatal excesses. His want
of Hope, cdmbined with his large Caution, accounts
for the melancholy and despondency into which he
so frequently fell, and which give so saddening an
air to many of his writings. The solemn strain of
“ Man -was made to mourn,” and the melancholy and
but too prophetic forebodings conveyed in the con-
cluding lines of that beautiful effusion, “ The moun-
tain daisy,” with many others, hut totf evidently
evince the darkness that at times clouded his mind.
Combativeness was another very largely developed
organ in the head of Burns, and it produced that spirit
of contention for which he has been reprobated;
along with a large developement of Destructiveness’
it instigated and forms the essence of the satires which
Burns so unsparingly levelled against those who
came under his resentment. Imitation, Wonder,
Ideality and Wit are all large, as may have been
expected ; to point out their manifestations in his
writings -would he superfluous. Wit is less marked
than the other three, but combined with his large
Secretiveness it forms that inimitable humour so
liberally lavished in “ Death and Dr. Hornbrook,”
“ Jolly Beggars,” and others, too numerous to men-
tion. In his “ Tam O’Shanter,” he combines most
of the qualities of a poet in great peifection, as in a
poem to his memory it is said, —
“ Imagination’s world of air,
And our own world, its gloom and glee,
Wit, pathos, poetry are there,
And death’s sublimity.”
The perceptive faculties were extremely large in
the skull of Burns, as is abundantly evident in the
graphic force of his poetry ; the reflective also were
fully as largely developed, forming an intellect
worthy of the author of the “ Cottar’s Saturday
night.” Burns, in his poem entitled “ A Bard’s
Epitaph,” has given us his own character in the lan-
guage of truth and discrimination ; the verse—
“ Is there a man, whose judgment clear,
Can others teach the road to ste^r,
Yet runs, himself, life’s mad career,
Wild as the wave ?
Here pause, and thro’ the starting tear,
Survey this grave.”
will form the best summing up of his character that-
can he given.
Perhaps some apology is necessary for such a
lengthened notice of the developement of Burns, but
considering the character of the individual, and the
interesting circumstances of the case as regards Phre-
nology, I may be pardoned for entering so fully upon
a subject which must engage the attention of every
literary person, and prove not utterly uninteresting
to others.
ÆNEAS.
Original Poetry.
THE DOG-FIEND
In street, Sydney.
“ You think, then, dogs ought not to be allowed in a city?’’
“There are differences in dogs. Some are fiends incarnate.
During the eight years that I drove Mr. Surgeon B.’s gig, l
have often seen the dog-fiends following us. Whenever the
Doctor’s visit was unusually long at any house, the dog fiend
was sure to plant himself in the neighbourhood, and bark all
night. I know the bark very well—very penetrating and
daunting. I know the dog-fiend’s look perfectly well too—
it is sly, malicious, and like no other dog’s. Sometimes he
has had the form of - a mastiff, or a Newfoundland, or a grey-
hound, or a Cape wolf-dog. He knew that I knew him, and
alwavs kept out of my reach.”
“ Did you ever mention these things to your master, Dr. B. ?”
“ Yes; before he sent me to Tarban Creek, but never after.
I was afraid he would send me again.”— [Evidence of J. B.
before the Committee of the Legislative Council on the Dos
Act , 18*3.] S
CAN IS CANIT.
Aha! good people, I am here;
Last night you heard the sounds of fear—
The unremitting Bow-wow-wow,
Come tell me, How dy’e like it, now ?
Bow-wow !
Yes, yes, “ the horrid dog”—l’m he—
That is the name that pleases me—■
The horrid dog, whose peal sublime
Pervades the dark and silent time.
Bow-wow!
.Bow-wow! Bow-wow ! that is my part,
With pow’rful chest and willing heart ;
The part is set by him below—
Bow-wow ! bow-wow ! the long night thro’.
Bow-wow!


My owner praises and enjoys—
Poor fool! my vigilance and noise.
He thinks not of the groans and curses
Of patients, doctors, mothers, nurses.
Bow-wow!
He’s put me in an open yard
A shilling worth of fruit to guard !
What then ? it is a rising ground
Where I can sound far, far around!
Bow-wow !
Oh, aye—l am the horrid dog
To scare an apple-stealing rqgue —
Good fun the little fry to frighten,
But graver bus’ness I delight in—
Bow-wow.
Great glee is mine, when, thro’ the gloom
Of midnight, feeble glimm’rings come,
By rushlight shed or floating wick,
Where lie the bedrid old or sick.
Bow-wow!
Bow-wow ! bow-wow ! that’s all I do—
And that’s enough—the long night thro’;
It echoes through the streets and yards
Into the Spittal’s fever wards.
Bow-wow!
Through ev’ry court and lane and street.
To rooms where skill and sickness meet —
Tt fires delirium’s rising rage,
And chills the typhoid nerves of age.
Bow-wow!
What shifts to gain a little sleep !
They shade the light, they glide, they creep
With noiseless footfall, whisper low,
And bathe with vinegar the brow !
Bow-wow!
Nor quite in vain : the eyelids close,
The troubled brain begins to doze,
The nurse, with look of lighten’d care,
Sits down and breathes a thankful pray’r.
Bow-wow !
The wits still wander, but the dreams
Are now of native hills and streams—
The sleep grows easy and profound,
Each hour is worth a thousand pound!
Bow-wow !
I raise my mighty Bow-wow-wow !
Where is the healing slumber now?
Bow-wow ! loud, solemn, clear, and strong,
Bow-wow ! bow-wow ! the whole night long.
Bow-wow!
He groans—his frame is horror-shaken —
How much ©f morphine must be taken ?
Then sinks into another sleep—
Another, not so sweet or deep.
Bow-wow 1
Hark, hark—“ Oh sharp and dreadful pain !
“ Lord, spare me such as that again.
“ And oh, that dream of misery—
“ Keep still away the like from me!”
Bow-wow!
Bow-wow ! bow-wow ! that’s all I do—
I peal it out the long night through ;
"Where lingers life, or saddens love,
That’s all my bus’ness here above.
Bow-wow!
LOCAL NEWS.
Goulburn Nov. 7. —Mrs. Chisholm reached our town on
Monday, the 4th instant, with several familes and single men
and women. The single men and women readily obtained
situations at what may be termed fair wages, and the families
are at this time almost all provided for. During the journey
from Sydney, Mrs. C. states that benevolent individuals along
the road vied with each other in performing acts of generosity
and kindness towards the persons under her charge, and she
was thus enabled to supply all with ample provisions; in this
respect too the people of Goulburn have done their duty. As
the present is about the first attempt made to get distressed
persons removed from Sydney to a part of the country where
there is abundance of every sort of provisions, and moderate
wages for them, it is gratifying to be enabled to state that the
attempt has been so successful. We have heard that Mrs.
Chisholm does not intend to proceed to .Yass, as at this time
there are only three families disengaged ; some of those who
could not get employment before she came up are speaking of
putting themselves under her magic influence—for Mrs.
Chisholm is every thing.— Correspondent of the Herald.
The Mayoralty. —The election for Mayor, which took place
on Saturday last, terminated in favour of Mr. George Allen. The
respective votes were, for Allen, 13: Macdermott, 11.
We regret to inform our correspondent S. P. H. that, in
consequence of an accident occurring to the type of his excellent
article on the missionary ship John Williams, its omission is
unavoidable.
EXTRACTS.
A Liverpool Merchant.' —ln 1836 the transactions of
Mr. Brown’s house amounted to £10,000,000. Tn 1837 the
American banks, all over the Union, went down one after
another, almost with a universal crash. They fell, and their
fall involved the Messrs. Brown. The latter were not crushed,
but they were bruised.* American commerce was at that time
a towering pile in course of erection; bank credit was the
scaffolding. It fell, and the Browns were not far from being
smothered in the rubbish. Had they possessed less than the
strength of giants they could not have extricated themselves ;
and, giants as they were, they would have struggled in vain
had not a powerful hand assisted them. The British Govern-
ment saw, and looked with apprehension as it saw, the
struggles of this gigantic establishment. From Inverness to
Penzance there was not a single town but would have felt its
fall. In Sheffield and Birmingham, and the towns surround-
ing them, and in Manchester, Leeds, and all the great factory
communities, a large number of the merchants and employers,
and, as a matter of course, every man and woman employed,
were less or more involved in the fate of this establishment.
The Government of that day saw the imminent peril, and so
did the Directors of the Bank of England ; the latter met, and
passed a resolution to assist Mr. Brown to the extent of two
millions. The exact sum he was authorised to draw—a loan
of money to an individual unparalelled in the history of the
world—was £1,959,000. Of this loan he took advantage to the
extent of between eight and nine hundred thousand pounds,
which he has since repaid, besides clearing off all other
embarrassments. What Mr. Brown’s personal fortune may be
now it is not necessary to enquire. It is ample—probably not
less than the sum which he was authorised to borrow from the
Bank of England in 1837, probably more.— English Paper.
The French reign of terror. —The sun of liberty was
in eclipse while the crested hydra of the coalition glared round
the horizon ; the atmosphere was dark and sultry ; there was a
dead pause, a stillness in the air, except as the silence was
broken by a shout like distant thunder, or the wild chant of
patriotic songs; there was a fear, as in the time of a plague—
a fierceness, as before and after a deadly strife. It was a civil
war raging in the heart of a great city as in a field of battle,
and turning it into a charnel-house. The eye was sleepless ;
the brain heated. Sights of horror grew familiar to the mind,
which had no other choice than that of being either the victim
or the executioner. What at first was stern necessity, or public
duty, became a habit and a sport; and the arm, inured to
slaughter, struck at random, and spared neither friend nor foe.
The soul, harrowed up by the most appalling spectacles, could
not do without them, and “ nursed the dreadful appetite of
death.” The habit of going to the place of execution resembled
that of visiting the theatre. Legal murder was the order of the
day—a holyday sight—till France became one scene of wild
disorder, and the revolution a stage of blood. — Hazlitt.
JBeatfjs.
Between the 2nd and 3rd instant, at Newcastle, in the 24th
year of his age, William, younger son of the Rev. Robert
Stewart, Presbyterian Minister.
At 601, Lower George-street, on the sth instant, Hannah,
wife of Mr. W. J. Morris.
At his residence, Miller’s Point, on the 11th instant, from
an accident on board the Rose steamer, Mr. George Watson,
aged thirty-five years, deeply regretted by a numerous circle
of relatives and friends.


Shipping Intelligence.
ARRIVALS.
November 6.—H.M.S. Vestal, 26 guns, Captain Charles
Talbot, from England 16th January, New York 27th February,
Rio Janeiro 18th May, Monte Video 15th August, Cape of
Good Hope 10th September, and Hobart Town the Ist instant.
November 6.—The steamer Maitland, 103 tons, Captain
Parsons, from Port-Macquarie, with sundries.
November 6.—The brig William, 149 tons, Captain Thom,
from Launceston the Ist instant.
November 6.—The schooner Waterlily, 155 tons, Captain
Hayle, from Hobart Town the 30th ultimo, with potatoes, &c.
November 6.—The steamer Sovereign, 119 tons, Captain
Cape, from Moreton Bay, 4th instant, with wool, &c.
November B.—The American barque Columbus, 313 tons,
Captain Hutchins, from the whale fiishery, having been seven
months and eight days from New Bedford.
November 8. —The barque Clarendon, 431 tons, Captain
Grant, from Leith, sth June, and Port Phillip 3rd instant.
November B.—The schooner Edward, 87 tons, Captain
Tallan, from Boyd Town, Twofold Bay, the sth instant.
November B.—R.Y.S. Wanderer, 87 tons, B. Boyd, Esq.,
from Boyd Town, Twofold Bay, the sth instant.
DEPARTURES.
November 6.—Tne schooner Martha and Elizabeth, Captain
Devlin, for Port Phillip, with sundries.
November 7. —The barque John Williams, Captain Morgan,
for the South Sea Islands.
November 7.—The brig Calypso, Captain Harrold, for
Launceston.
November B.—The American brig Pactolus, Captain Bar-
stow, for China, in ballast.
November 10.—The brig Sir John Byng, Captain Forbes,
for Chusan.
November 10. —The schooner Cheerful, Captain Patrick,
for Manila.
November 11.—The barque Juno, Captain Hayes, for the
Whale Fishery, with sundries.
November 11.—The steamer Sovereign, Captain Cape, for
Moreton Bay, with sundries.
November 12.—The schooner Lowestoft, Captain Campbell,
for Launceston via Port Fairy.
November 12.—The brig Palmyra, Captain Griffiths, for
Port Albert, in ballast.
November 12.—-The brig Martha, Captain Boustead, for
Launceston, with sundries.
November 12.—The schooner Hawlc, Captain Brown, for
Adelaide via Melbourne.
November 12.—The brig Governor Phillip, Captain Boyle,
for Hobart Town.
HOUSI2,
GEORGE STREET, OPPOSITE THE COMMERCIAL
BANK.
In the Insolvent Estate of Mr. Joseph Taylor,
By Order of the Official Assignee, under the Act Vic. 5
No. 17.
MR. STUBBS
Respectfully announces to Capitalists, Merchants, and the
Moneyed World that he is instructed to sell by public auction
On tiie Premises, 1 r Tuesday, THE 19TH
George-street. jr } OF Nov. 1844.
Sale to commence at Twelve o’clock, punctually,
ALL that very extensive and intrinsicly valuable Mer-
cantile Property and well-established Silk, Mercery, and
Haberdashery Establishment, well known as
spitalfield’s HOUSE.
Comprising the most spaciously laid out and splendid SHOP
with superb show rooms up stairs, having four most agreeable
balcony windows opening to George-street in front. Besides
the great space allowed in the shop between the counters on
either side and the show glasses, the upper end is divided off
so as to form a separate department for the millinery business
it required. There is a back sitting-room ; capital kitchen,
with range all complete. At the back also is another room
with two rooms above, admirably adapted for extra bed-rooms
or mantua-makers’ apartments and their apprentices, quite
detached from other parts.
That which forms the domiciliary or family portion of the
establishment, is replete with every comfort to be found in a
most excellent dining-room, parlour, three bed-rooms, and
dressing-room, all quiet and far removed from the bustling
part of the premises.
THE CELLAR
Is the whole space of the lower room, and built under the care
of a well-known Architect.
THE CARRIAGE ENTRANCE
Is closed by a gate from George-street, passing a large paved
court yard; at the extreme end of the premises, so.r.e 130 feet,
(and which is about the depth of the property from George-
street), stands the coach-house and stabling, the whole width
of the property.
A most substantial building this is, and taking the two
floors raised upon it above, as warehouses, free from pilfering
or rats—it would seem impossible to fix on premises in the
whole City that were better designed for the security of goods
of the most valuable description ever imported to this colony.
It would, therefore, seem superfluous to add further
than a request that whosoever really wishes to invest his money
upon a property which has been just set at £3OO by a next
door neighbour, and who desires a good, safe, sound, unvary-
ing investment, he cannot surely do better than attend this
sale, positively fixed for
TUESDAY, the 19th NOVEMBER, AT 12 O’CLOCK,
ON THE PREMISES, GEORGE STREET.
JOHN MORRIS,
Official Assignee.
To Drapers, Silkmercers, Hosiers, Haberdashers, Dealers, Mil-
liners, Mantua-makers, Tailors, Private Families, Traders, §c.
m TIB ESTATE OF SETS. JOSEtH
TiVLXQR.
By Order of the Official Assignee. Under the Act, Vic. -5,
No. 17.
MR. STUBBS is instructed to announce that he will sell
by public auction, on TUESDAY, the 19th November,
on the premises, known as
SPITALFIELDS HOUSE, GEORGE-STREET.
The whole of the Stock-in-Trade connected with this popular
and very extensive establishment, consisting of (as per Inven-
tory) Bandanna handkerchiefs, summer parasols, rich China
scarfs, children’s dresses, Chinese caps, reel cotton, silk dresses,
remnants, sill?, Gros de Naples, black silk handkerchiefs, &c.,
black satin, rich black ditto, black satin print dresses, muslin
dresses, mousselines de laine, ladies’ China hose, girls’ white
cotton stockings, muslin aprpns, India book muslin, challis,
scarfs, aprons, silk, muslin bags, muslin cuffs, infants’ French
caps, ditto lawn shirts, ditto stay bodies, diaper pinafores,
infants’ frocks, ditto petticoats, flannels, muslin collars, lace
shawls, embroidered scarfs, Brazilian ditto, mousseline de laine
and challis shawls, Thibet and Cashmere shawls, rich damask
table cloths (most beautifully figured,) and napkins, furniture
prints, huckabacks, grasscloth, linen sheeting, Irish linen,
lawn, muslin, pelerines, French blond, black ducape water
colour silk, figured ditto, ladies’ wrappers and morning
dresses for the summer of 1844, insertion and edging, ladies’
fancy bonnets, silk stocks, gloves, &c.
Thirteen cases Burgundy, Claret, &c., and a loose lot of
Champagne.
HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE, PLATE, and EFFECTS.&c.
One excellent semi-grand piano-forte, brilliant tone and
splendid action
One mahogany sideboard, very massive
Eight ditto chairs, morrocco seats
One ditto escutcheon, made for the Duke of Manchester
One musical box
Glass cruets, &c.
Two ottomans, one dressing table
Six large silver forks, two small ditto
Five silver table spoons
Nine ditto dessert and tea ditto
One office table, carpets, rugs, ornaments, &c.
Twenty-two China flower-pots, &c., &c.
after which,
One carriage, and a lot of chaise harness
One gig horse and whip
One case carriage seats
And various other articles too numerous to add to this
advertisement, Terms at sale.
JOHN MORRIS,
Official Assignee.


REMOVAL
HF4DING-S GENERAL PRINTING OFFICE is THIS DAY REMOVED, from 133, King-street,
. to 31 IS Pitt-stre»t North, (opposite to A. Foss' Chemical Dru*. ami Grocery Establishment-) where every descnpttou
PRINTING will he performed, Ls heretofore, with correctness, neatness, ami dispatch. Toe Office of
“COLONIAL LITERARY JOURNAL”
also removed to the same place, where all communications intended for the above Journal are requested to be forwarded.
31st October, 1844. i :. ■ ~~~
rr.SSH NOVSLTSSS.
MRS DAVIES begs to acquaint her friends and the
public, that she has received bv late arrivals irom
London, two cases of SUMMER MILLINERY consisting
of a choice assortment of the newest style in fashionable
bonnets, white French chips, and Paris net, transparent
bonnets, plain and drawn bonnets, in every variety.
Two cases Tuscan and Dunstable bonnets
Ditto ditto Leghorn and fancy rice straw bonnets.
Mrs. D. particularly invites an early inspection of the above,
as they will be offered at very reduced prices, so as to ensnre a
quick sale.
One case of superior Cor.tille Corsets, of the most approved’
make and shape, and peculiarly adapted to this climate.
George street,
Opposite the Commercial Bank.
PUNCH; or/ the London Charivari. Vol. VI
Punch’s Letters to his Son, by Douglas Jerrold.
The Story of a Feather, by Douglas Jerrold
The Man at Arms, a Romance, by G. P. R. Janies
The World of London, by John Fisher Murray
Lardner’s Cyclopaedia, vol. cxxxi. : —Electricity, Magnetism
and Meteorology, vol. ii.
Spenser’s Works, complete in one volume
Chaimer’s (Dr,) on the Civic Economy of large Towns, 3 vols.
Chalmer’s (Dr.) on Christian Revelation
“ Sermons preached in the Tron Church
“ Lectures on National Churches
“ Sermons preached in St. John’s Church
“ Political Economy
New Sporting Magazine, vols. i. to vj., new scries
Sequel to Don Juan, with portraits
Dewar (Dr.) on the Nature and Obligations of Personal and
Familyßeligion
Rod well’s (Mrs.) First Step to English History®
And many others.
COLMAN (late Tegg,)
Bookseller and Stationer,
485, Geovge-street, opposite the Military Barracks.
DESPATCH.
AGROCOTT, Engraver, Printer, and Stationer, in rc-
_» turning his grateful thanks for the very liberal
patronage bestowed upon him since bis commencement in the
above business, by the-gentry, merchants, and shopkeepers of
Sydney, begs to inform them that be lias this day completed
(at considerable expense) his plan for printing and pressing
upwards of 1000 Bills, Cards, Circulars, &c. &c., in 24 hours
from the time of the order being given, thereby removing all
the inconvenience and delay hitherto attached to the Copper-
plate printing, and which is effected by Hot Pressing the whole
of the work entrusted to him, a plan never yet introduced in
the Colony.
To Gentlemen about going up the country or to the neigh-
bouring Colonies, this arrangement will produce a decided
advantage, as they can at any time have 100 cards printed and
ready for delivery 2 hours from the time of the order being given.
The celebrity which A. G. has earned in the Gold and Silver
Printing, needs no comment at his hands, as those parties who
have already employed him, show their satisfaction by paying
a second visit, A. G. in conclusion begs to impress upon the
minds of the publicrthe fact that he is not “ A Shilling per
Hundred Printer ” but professes to perform all work with
despatch and on reasonable terms, which has proved the
greatest satisfaction to him, by receiving a steady increase of
business since his commencement, during which time he has
not lost a customer.
Printing, Foolscap, Post, and other papers, together with a
good selection of Stationery always on hand at a reasonable
figure.
476, George-street, opposite the Barrack Wall.
N.B.—A. Grocott respectfully offers his personal services
to the Trade, as it is well known he can turn out their work
with greater despatch, than can be performed at their own
establishments.
THE weekly supply now exceeds Four Hundred Pounds,
families may therefore be supplied in any quantities at
one shilling and two-pence per pound. The quality superior
to Glenlee.
ROBERT PORTER.
City Tea Warehouse,
November !2.
A CHAHUNGSI,
TO ENGLAND, IRELAND, SCOTLAND, AND ALL THE WORLD
BESIDE.
WALKER’S PATENT GROATS.
THIS ARTICLE, if tested, will be found to contain mSre
nutriment, than any similar article of the kind. E.
Walker is prepared to prove that two thirds of the quantity of
the above, if made in a proper manner, will be equal in nourish-
ment, and of a thicker substance, than the usual quantity
generally recommended by others in the directions for use.
Another desirable property belonging to \V alker’s Patent
Groats is, as regards the great safety for export —not liable to
that change which the English manufacture is, by turning
sour on the voyage, avoided by the patent mode of preparation,
and greatly aided by the spontaneous growth of the grain
grown in this Country ; while free from the artificial culture
which causes so much moisture in the farina of the English
grain, and scarcely ever eradicated or sufficiently prepared.
Enough already is before the public to satisfy them that
Walker’s Farinaceous Food, (for Children and for Persons with
impared diarestion,) ought not to be despised, and which for
the future will be packed in Tin Canisters, in order to preserve
its most agreeable flavour. With the usual white label —
sealed and signed Edward Walker—that only being genuine.
Wholesale orders to any extent will be immediately at-
tended to ; any export order exceeding ten gross of either
article, terms, half Cash, and the remainder when the goods
are resold.
Manufactory, Old Botany Road.
C'oltmtal ILitcrarj) journal,
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
mHE TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION to this Journal
J are, Three Shillings per Quarter, in Town ; Country,
Three Shillings and Sixpence; payable, in every case,
in advance .
Terms for Advertisements :—For one inch, and under,
Three Shillings; and One Shilling for every additional inch,
each insertion. Advertisements will be received until Two
o’Clock on Wednesday afternoon; but cannot be withdrawn
later than Nine o’Clock on Wednesday morning. Adver-
tisements must specify on the face of them the number of
times they are to be inserted, or they will be continued till
countermanded, and charged accordingly.
All communications must be addressed to “ The Editor of
the Colonial Literary Journal , General Printing Office, 316,
Pitt-street,” (post paid.)
Agents for tliis Journal.
Sydney, Mr. W. Jones, Circulating Library, Brickfield-hill.
Parramatta Mr. Hugh Taylor.
Windsor Mr. Walker.
Bathurst Mr. Tress.
West Maitland Mr. Galloway.
Camden , Camphelltown, Penrith, and
Liverpool Mr. C, Lester.
Gunning Mr. Hawthorne.
