

COLONIAL
LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
“ NON TUA TE MOVEANT, SED PUfeLICA VOTA.’
Vol. I. No. 25.]
SYDNEY, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1544.
[Price 4d.
THE LOVE OF NOVELTY.
“The love of novelty or change seems to be instilled
into mankind (says an anonymous writer) by the
unceasing vicissitude of things that surrounds him in
this earthly scene.” Not only is this vicissitude
observable in the highest laws of the universe, but it
descends to and influences the minutest object ; it is
seen in the calms and storms of the mighty ocean, and
in the smoothness and little dimpling undulations
which succeed each other on the surface of a drop of
dew: in the changes of the seasons, and in the alter-
nations of day and night. Nor does any day present
an unchanging aspect from beginning to end. As
courses of moist and dry weather follow’ and moderate
each other in the larger divisions of time, so, in the
smaller space between morning and night, w r e have
frequently similar variations : now sunshine pervades
and brightens the whole face of nature ; presently
small light clouds float between us and the orb of
light, their shadows, no two of them alike in form,
skimming rapidly along the surface of the ground and
over the tops of the woods ; they grow thicker and
murkier; by and bye there is heard among the leaves
of the trees the pattering of rain, which, quickening,
becomes continuous, and pours down a genial shower
on the parched soil; in a short time the clouds pass
away, the sun once more shoots down its vivifying
rays, and the numberless drops wdiicli bend the piles
of grass, glitter with a living brightness that surpasses
crystal. These, and many more changes, frequently
occur in the compass of a day. Neither is the dark-
ness of night always alike deep—it is broken and
contrasted in a thousand ways by the silver light of
the moon. Look at the hills —there is not a hollow
on their sides that corresponds precisely with another,
nor two peaks on their summits that presents the same
form ; the valleys have all scenery peculiar to them-
selves ; and the rivers meander with windings', the like
of which are nowhere else to be found. Of all the
millions of human beings that have existed since the
world began, no two persons have had features
exactly resembling each other. The faces of every
species of animal vary in an equal degree. No two
trees shoot up stems alike in curvature and shape, nor
send out similar branches, nor is there any leaf for
which an exact counterpart can be found, though a
whole forest should be searched, nay, though the
whole of nature were ransacked. In short, throughout
all nature, animate and inanimate, the same variety
prevails, affording endless resources to gratify the
sight and to keep the attention alive. What a dreary
and intolerable thing a walk a few miles into the
country would be, if nothing could be seen but an
unbounded succession of one single object 1 The eye
would drop unexpressive and dissatisfied upon the
dusty road, and our minds sink dull and languid
within us.
The multiplicity of useful and shapely animals with
which the earth is plenished and enriched —of birds
that wing the air and fill the woods with their melo-
dies—of stately and shady trees —of odorous shrubs,
plants, and flowers —all arranged in a thousand dif-
ferent groups —offer unwearying, because ever-chang-
ing, delights to the senses, and through them cheer
and invigorate the spirits. As we breath involun-
tarily, and are seldom sensible of pleasure from an
act so common ; in like manner, the charms of
external nature being constantly before oui* eyes, we
often do not particularly regard them : yet they never-
theless infuse into the mind a silent satisfa.ctioh, and
supply a continual inspiration, as it were, by which
it® faculties are preserved in a sound condition, and
prevented from falling into a state of torpor and in-
activity. And thus, even at those times when the
intellectual powers cease from exertion, the wisdom
of the Author of Nature has provided means by which
their energies are kept unimpaired.
When we direct our thoughts with the smallest
degree of attention to the astonishing variety in the
w'orks of creation, we find, in every new object, a
monitor reminding us, that surely, amidst all these
“ changes and vicissitude's of things,” man alone was
not made to remain stationary. In such a boundless
field for the extension of knowledge, who can be so
dull as not to feel within him an impulse to pursue it!
Some neglect the lesson which Nature so simply yet
impressively teaches ; some pervert it; some avail
themselves of it in a small degree ; soir e improve it
to the utmost. A few devote themselves to the study
of those objects which first inspired them with the
love of inquiry, and spend their days in the most
healthful, innocent, and delightful of all researches ;
but the greater number engage in investigations more
closely connected with the w'ants and comforts of man
in an advanced stage of civilisation : the arts and
sciences engross one portion ; literature occupies
another ; multitudes are attracted by other pursuits, in
which they hope to find opportunities of displaying
their enterprise or ingenuity. All are actuated alike
by the original impulse—the desire of discovering
something new : and the world looks to all alike for
the production of some novelty. Those who, in their


manner of life, remove themselves the farthest pos-
sible from the simplicity of nature, are the most
studious of procuring, in their amusements, in their
household arrangements, in their attire, and in all
that approaches them, the charm of novelty ; but they
are commonly the least successful, for art cannot
multiply means so profusely as nature. For this reason
it is obvious that more excruciating thought has been
employed in contriving the merest trifles, than in
forming the noblest ideas that the mind of uninspired
man has ever been able to produce.
It is frequently said of some authors, that their
writings are so excellent the reader never tires of
them ; but this is true only in a very limited degree.
When a man tells you he has read a book half a
dozen times over, and always with increased delight,
you may safely enough conclude that he only skimmed
its pages at first, and perhaps has never yet perused
them with a proper degree of attention; so that it is
not owing to the merits of the work, but to his care-
less reading, or slowness of apprehension, that he con-
tinues so long to discover in it beauties which he never
before observed. Most commonly, when a volume is
once read, and the charm of novelty over, it is set on
the shelf, and seldom again opened. After a long in-
terval, when not only all recollection of its finest
thoughts is obliterated, but the whole plan and con-
duct of the work is totally forgotten, it may be drawn
from its recesses in the hope of finding it as enter-
taining as if it were new ; but after a few pages, we
begin to perceive, that, though the ideas are not per-
fectly familiar to the mind, yet they want the grand
attraction of novelty, and have not interest enough to
carry us on in the perusal. Hence the constant train
of new publications, and the grievous complaints of
the admirers of the olden time, who think the sterling
compositions of former times are neglected for the
silly trash which the press now daily pours forth. A
very little reflection might serve to put effectually to
flight all fears of any declension of the national taste
in this respect: the “ works of the day” of times past
set with the sun that saw them brought forth, while
the venerable masters of wisdom survive to instruct
every new generation. Our descendants will never
see nor hear of the " fashionable novels” over which
their grandfathers did not disdain sometimes to beguile
an hour. •
Upon the whole, it may be remarked, that the
love of novelty, which occasionally appears to make
people prefer what is worthless to what is excellent, has
yet eventually a very different effect. The following is
the real way in which it operates: —Something new
presents itself, is tried, and approved. Another new
thing falls under notice, is tried also; but found to
be useless, and rejected. The bad, it is true, super-
sedes the good for a time; but the proper balance of
things is soon restored. We often laugh at our
ancestors for the absurdities of fashion which may be
noticed in their dress, their extravagances of opinion,
and all manner of unaccountable prejudices and
mistakes; whereas we ought rather to regard them as
having made trial of these things for our advantage ;
for, had not the example of such follies in others
showed us their unfitness, we should perhaps our-
selves have been betrayed to adopt them.
It is to be feared, we may observe in conclusion,
that, if it were not for that love of novelty which is
often so much declaimed against, and even ridiculed,
the progress of improvement would be incalculably
retarded. This sentiment has its evils, but, in its
general results, it may be asserted that the good un-
deniably preponderates.
Biography.
SHAKSPEARE.
{Compiled for the Colonial Literary Journal from various sources?}
[continued.]
It is to be lamented that so few incidents of the life of
Shakspeare have been handed down to posterity; but this may,
in some degree, be accounted for, from the little vicissitude to
which it was subject. A single accident carried him to
London; and here the constant exertion of his great abilities
conducted him, by an easy regular transition, from indigence
and obscurity, to competency and fame. His sound judgment
suggested to him the felicity of retirement, as soon as he had
accomplished his moderate wishes ; and here the scene of
active life closing, no extraordinary occurrence happened to
swell the annals of his peaceful days; and we have not even
an account of the malady which, at no very advanced age,
closed the life and labours of this unrivalled and incompa-
rable genius.
“ Nothing” remarks Chalmers, “ could be more highly
gratifying than an account of the early studies of this wonder-
ful man, the progress of his pen, his moral and social qualities,
his friendships, bis failings, and whatever else constitutes
personal history. But on all these topics his contemporaries
and his immediate successors have been equally silent, and if
aught can hereafter be discovered, it must be by exploring
sources which have hitherto escaped the anxious researches of
those who have devoted their whole lives, and their most
vigorous talents, to revive his memory and illustrate his writ-
ings Unfortunately we know as little of the progress
of his writings as of his personal history If we wonder
why we know so much less of Shakspeare than of his contem-
poraries, let us recollect that his genius, however highly and
justly we now rate it, took a direction which was not calculated
for permanent admiration, either in the age which he lived, or
in that which followed.” However extraordinary the delusion
of Shakspeare’s popularity may appear to us, it is certain
that, for nearly one hundred years after his death, partly
owing to the immediate revolution and rebellion, and partly
to the licentious taste encouraged in Charles I I/s time, and
perhaps partly to the incorrect state of his works, he was almost
entirely neglected. Mr. Malone has justly remarked that “if
he had been read, admired, studied, and imitated, in the same
degree that he is now, the enthusiasm of some one or other of
his admirers in the last age would have induced him to make
some inquiries concerning the history of his theatrical career,
and the anecdotes of his private life.”
His admirers, however, if he had admirers in that age, pos-
sessed no portion of such enthusiasm. That curiosity which,
in our days, has raised biography to the rank of an independent
study, was scarcely known, and, where known, confined prin-
cipally to the public transactions of eminent characters. And
if, in addition to the circumstances already stated, we consider
how little is known of the personal history of Shakspeare’s
contemporaries, we may easily resolve the question why, of all
men who have ever claimed admiration by genius, wisdom, or
valour, who have eminently contributed to enlarge the taste,
promote the happiness, or increase the reputation of their
country, we know the least of Shakspeare: and why of the
few particulars which seem entitled to credit, there is scarcely
one which has not become the occasion of controversy. After
a careful examination of all that modern research has disco--


vered, we know not how to trust our curiosity beyond the limits
of those barren dates which afford no personal history. The
whole is unsatisfactory, and Shakspeare, in his private cha-
racter, in his friendship, in his amusements, in his closet, in
his family, is nowhere before us ; and such was the nature of
the writings on which his fame depends, and of that employ-
ment in which he was engaged, that being in no important
rpspect connected with the history of his age, it is in vain to
look into the latter for any information concerning him.
D’lsraeli, in his notice of the old historian, Oldys, writes
thus—“ Spencer and Shakspeare of whom, perhaps, to our
shame, as it is to our vexation, it may be said that two of our
master-poets are those of whom we know the least! Oldys
once flattered himself that he should be able to have given the
world a life of Shakspeare, and contracted to supply ten years
of the life of Shakspeare unknown to the biographers, with one
Walker a bookseller in the Strand ; and, as Oldys did not live
to fulfil the engagement, that interesting narrative is now hope-
less for us. Yet by the solemn contract into which Oldys had
entered, and from his strict integrity, it might induce Us to
suspect that he had made positive discoveries which are now
irrecoverable.”
The works of Shakspeare have passed through many
editions, and been elucidated by many commentators. His
Plays have been estimated to the number of 43; but only
36 or 37 have been admitted by his modern editors. They
were first collected seven years after his death and published
in 1623.
Of his Poems, it is, perhaps, necessary that some notice
should be taken, although they have never been favourites
with the public, and have seldom been reprinted with his
plays. They have met with little commendation from modern
critics: still, it cannot be denied that there are many scattered
beauties among his Sonnets, and in the Rape of Lucrece.
Although they are now lost in the blaze of his dramatic genius,
Mr. Malone remarks, “that they seem to have gained him
more reputation than his plays: at least, they are oftener
mentioned or alluded to.”
Mr. Capell is of opinion that he wrote some prose works,
because “it can hardly be supposed that he, who had so con-
siderable a share in the confidence of the earls of Essex and
Southampton, could be a mute spectator only of controversies
in which they were so much interested.” This editor, however,
appears to have taken for granted a degree of confidence with
these two statesmen which he ought first to have proved.
Shakspeare might have enjoyed the confidence of their social
hours, but it is mere conjecture that they admitted him into
the confidence of their state affairs. Mr. Malone, whose
opinions are entitled to a higher degree of credit, thinks that
his prose compositions, if they should be discovered, would
exhibit the same perspicuity, the same cadence, the same
elegance and vigour, which we find in his plays. It is unfor-
tunate, however, for all wishes and all conjectures, that not a
line of Sliakspeare’s manuscript is known to exist, and his
prose writings are no where hinted at. We have only printed
copies of his plays and poems, and those so depraved by care-
lessness, or ignorance, that all the labour of all his commen-
tators has not yet been able to restore them to a probable
purity ; many of the greatest difficulties attending the perusal
of them yet remain and will require what it is scarcely possible
to expect, greater sagacity, and more happy conjecture, than
have hitherto been employed.
The obscurity in which his history is involved has occasioned
several atrocious attempts to be made by modern impostors to
palm upon the world prose and other writings for the posthu-
mous ones of Shakspeare; nor did he wholly escape the like
fraud in his own time.
Much dispute has arisen upon the subject of Shakspeare’s
learning. Dr Johnson says, “It is most likely that he had
learned Latin sufficiently to make him acquainted with con-
struction, that he never advanced to an easy perusal of the
Roman authors. Concerning his skill in modern languages, I
find no sufficient ground of determination; but as no imitations
of French or Italian authors have been discovered, though the
Italian poetry was then in high esteem, I am inclined to
believe, that he read little more than English, and chose for his
fables only such tales as he found translated. —There is, how-
ever, proof enough that he was a very diligent reader, nor was
our language then so indigent of books, but that he might
very liberally indulge his curiosity without excursion into
foreign literature. Many of the Roman authors were translated*
and some of the Greek ; the Reformation had filled the kingdom
with theological learning; most of the topics of human
disquisition had found English writers ; and poetry had been
cultivated, not only with diligence, but success. Ihis was a
stock of knowledge sufficient for a mind so capable of appro -
priating and improving it.” It has however, been contended,
by other writers, that Shakspeare was not unskilled in the
learned languages, and that he was acquainted with the Greek,
as well as with the Roman classics: but Dr Farmer, in his
“ Essay on the Learning of Shakspeare,” has accounted, in a
very satisfactory manner, for the frequent allusions to the facts
and fables of antiquity, which we meet with in the writings of
Shakspeare, without leaving any grounds for the supposition
of his having read the Greek and Roman writers in their
original languages, lie particularly specifies the old English
translations of various classical authors, which were then
extant, and with which Shakspeare was evidently conversant;
and, upon the whole, Dr Farmer concludes, that the studies of
Shakspeare were certainly confined to nature, and his own
language.
On the merit and genius of Shakspeare the following
observations are made by Mr. Pope. “If ever any author
deserved the name of an original, it was Shakespeare. Homer
himself drew not his art so immediately from the fountains of
nature, it proceeded through Egyptian strainers and channels*
and came to him not without some tincture of the learning, or
some cast of .the models, of those before him. The poetry of
Shakespeare was inspiration indeed : he is not so much an
imitator, as an instrument, of nature ; and ’tis not so just to
say that he speaks from her, as that she speaks through him.
His characters are so much nature itself, that ’tis a sort of
injury to call them by so distant a name as copies of her.
Those of other poets have a constant resemblance, which shews
that they received them from one another, and were but multi-
pliers of the same image : each picture, like a mock-rainbow,
is but the reflexion of a reflexion. But every single character
in Shakespeare is as much an individual, as those in life itself ;
it is impossible to find any two alike; and such as from their
relation or affinity in any respect appear most to be twins,
will upon comparison be found remarkably distinct.”
“ Shakespeare,” says Dr Johnson, “is above all writers, at
least above all modern writers, the Poet of Nature ; the poet
that holds out to his readers a faithful mirrour of manners and
of life. His characters are not modified by the customs of
particular places, unpractised by the rest of the world ; by the
peculiarities of studies or professions, which can operate but
upon small numbers; or by the accidents of transient fashions,
or temporary opinions. They are the genuine progeny of
common humanity, such as the world will always supply, and
observation always find. His persons act and speak by the
influence of those general passions and principles by which all
minds are agitated, and the whole system of life is continued
in motion. In the writings of other poets a character is too
often an individual; in those of Shakespeare it is commonly
a species. It is from this wide extension of design, that so
much instruction is derived. It is this which fills the plays of
Shakespeare with practical axioms and domestic wisdom. It
was said of Euripides, that every verse was a precept; and it
may be said of Shakespeare, that from his works may be
collected a system of civil and cecortDmical prudence.”


APOLOGY FOR OUR ARTICLE ON REWARD.
[For the Colonial Literary Journal.]
Our article on “ Reward ” seems to have given um-
brage to some of our readers, and to have induced
them to honour it with a notice—a circumstance as
little sought after as it was expected. The most
cursory perusal of our remarks might have been
sufficient to shew that our mind was quite innocent
of any expectation of opposition ; indeed, we believe,
that, in the case of our moralizing friend “ Amicus ,”
the looseness of our observations first suggested the
idea of a reply to bis mind ; for, it is evident, as we
shall presently shew, that deeply versed he is not in
the science of Metaphysics—by the laws of which
science alone this question can be determined. We
have neither will nor inclination to follow him into
the merits of the religious complexion with which he
has clothed the subject; more especially as he talks
of “ the death of martyrs,” &c., as acts of charity or
benevolence, (to which our remarks were confined,)
and many other matters equally strange and incom-
prehensible. Since he has honored us, however, by
seeking information, common courtesy demands that
we should give it —or, at all events, that we should
shew the question itself to be grounded on a positive
and palpable absurdity.
“ How acts that are originated and propelled by selfishness,
can be either generous, philanthropic, or benevolent, I am at
a loss to conceive: perhaps your correspondent on some
future occasion will afford the necessary information.”
As we can very well afford to pass by the sneer
contained in this question, we will proceed at once to
reply, in the most dignified manner we can, to our
friend’s query.
Metaphysical science teaches us that cause and
effect are not one and the same thing; but that the
one is the result of the other. About five minutes
ago we determined to write this article, and according
to our determination we are doing so. Now the act
of writing is a very different thing from the deter-
mination which led to it; and thus it is certain that
there neither is nor can be any necessary connexion
between a motive and the act which follows it—the
one appertaining entirely to the mind, the other being
a physical act resulting from volition . It is possible
to do a good action with a bad motive. We give
“ Amicus” credit for seeing at once the absurdity into
which he has been led when he attempts to confound
cause with effect—that is, the acts themselves with the
motives by which they were produced. They are dis-
tinct and separate properties which cannot be united ;
nay, more —which, in many cases, do not so much as
resemble one another.
Neither can we exonerate “ .ZEneas” from some por-
tion of the same censure. Certainly, if either of the
articles can be said to demolish what we advanced, or
to approach near such a consummation, it is the article
on the “ Credulity of Readers.” We have no wish,
however, to impose upon the credulity of any: our
sole object in writing the present article is to avoid
such a result. Declamation has been substituted for
argument; our ears have been tickled in lieu of our
understandings having been convinced; whilst (and
we regret that we are compelled to say it) absurd and
unmeaning terms have been employed, calculated only
to blind and mislead those of whose too easy credulity
./Eneas so loudly complains. Let us not be considered
unjust. We put it fairly and candidly to the writer
himself, whether there be any meaning in such arrant
absurdities as “ instinctive impulse" and “ external -
motive ?” The words “ instinctive impulse ” are used
as opposite to the effects produced in the mind by
external objects—a thing utterly impossible. The
mind is incapable of either sensation or perception,
unless acted upon through one of the five senses; and
a moment’s reflection will convince .ZEneas of the
fact. Again, “ external motive ” implies an absurdity.
Motive is an exclusive power of the mind; it may,
nay must, be produced in the mind by something ex-
ternal ; but to suppose such external thing to be the
same with what it produces, is to confound cause with
effect. .ZEneas writes also of “an impulse to do good
actions not the result of external objects—or, if he
will—motives.” Now there is no one law in the whole
range of Metaphysical science better established than
the fact, that the mind cannot be acted upon but by
external objects being conveyed to the brain by the
process of sensation, perception, and so on. It is
nonsense, therefore, to speak of “ an impulse inde-
pendent of externals,” because there can be no such
thing, as the writer may know by examining his own
mind. In his extreme case of a child in danger, he
uses the word “impulse” again, with the expletive
“lightning” attached to it, in order, we presume, to
give us an idea of the speed with whieli his mind
grappled with the danger, and strove to turn it on one
side. That his mind was affected from without is
absolutely certain, for had not his organ of vision con-
veyed the child’s danger to his mind through sensation
and perception, no such demonstration on its behalf
would or could have taken place : and we know that
in such a case the impression of the child’s danger
would have been instantaneous, and either would have
produced instantaneous efforts to rescue it, or have
paralysed all effort, according as hope or fear was pre-
dominant in his mind.
“ Now, it must be evident to all,” says ZEneas, “ that the
benevolence does not consist in the action itself—for similar
actions may be done with any but benevolent motives —but
consists in the motive or impulse to do this action.”
We confess this sentence has puzzled us not a little.
A statement is here made, the truth of which we posi-
tively and unhesitatingly deny —namely, “ that bene-
volence does not consist in the action.” But supposing
that the matter is dubious, is it any proof of the fact
put forth to say “ that similar actions” (to those which
are not prompted by benevolence) “ may be performed
without benevolent motives ? ” This is merely another
assertion —and a correct one too —and is not a proof,
as we are led by the wording of the sentence to sup-
pose it was intended to be.
Benevolence is a word which has no reference to
the motives that induce to the performance of an act,
but refers to the act itself. The word is employed, we
imagine, to distinguish the act from the motive. Let
us beg .ZEneas’ serious attention to this for a moment.
We often hear of benevolent actions, and sometimes
too of benevolent motives. The motive being an
emotion of the mind, may certainly be said to be
benevolent, or the reverse ; but for why ? Is it not
because the act springing from it is benevolent ? If
not, by what other means can we get at a knowledge
of the operations of the minds of others ?
“ Nature hath giv’n no outward mark to note
The gen’rous mind : the qualities of men [or mind]
To sense are indistinct.”
We know' that men very often perform benevolent


actions, and that too with very base motives ; and yet,
judging by the act, we erroneously call even those
motives benevolent. /Eneas has just told us that
benevolent actions may be performed without bene-
volent motives, and yet this is the only plea we have,
or can have, for the use or employment of the words
V benevolent motives.” We have elsewhere shewn
that there is no necessary connexion whatever between
the motive and the act. They may agree if the man
be just; if he be a villain, they may not.
Another most grievous error into which /Eneas has
fallen, is the following :
“ Reward is the result of the benevolent impulse ” (what
he means by benevolent impulse we know not, unless it be
motive;) “ it is, in fact, the effect, while impulse” [or motive]
41 is the cause."
Now, so far from this being true, it is egregiously
wrong. The cause of a benevolent action is the object
•of charity, which is conveyed to the mind by sensa-
tion, perception, and so forth. The object is ndt a
cause until it be transferred to the mind, for without
that we cannot comprehend it. It is this fact which
renders it neeessary for metaphysicians to reason from
effect to cause where mind is concerned. When the
mind is fully employed upon the object which has
been transferred to it from without, that object, as
thus represented on the brain or mind, becomes the
cause; the action, or, rather, motive to action, result-
ing from such perception is the effect. This doctrine
is admitted by all philosophers—more especially by
materialists and immaterialists—the two great anta-
gonists in the science of metaphysics; and we scarcely
imagine ./Eneas will be able to refute it.
Our author dwells at some length—and, we confess,
with much beauty—upon the idea, that selfishness
would mar the feelings of pleasure we derive from the
sympathy and condolence of others—when laid on a
bed of sickness —perhaps, of death. Although he has
confounded charity, &c. with sympathy for dying
friends, we are still not averse to prove the correctness of
the position he supposes to be false.
“ Yes, says the sophist, who will agree with the cold-hearted
Locke, these emotions all spring from selfishness. It was not
compassion for the dead nor the dying that actuated their
breasts; it was the thought that the death of those dear to
them would be injurious to their own happiness.”
And would it not ? Else why the “ tears and
agonies” so prettily expressed ? The mind was
pained at the contemplation of dissolution —it remem-
bered all its former joys with the object now about
to pass away for ever. Had it not loved that object
the mind would rot have been pained, at least, to so
great an extent. All this nobody can deny. Now,
we ask, was this love a source of pain ? No. Then
it must have been a source of pleasure. Had we
derived no pleasure from this love, should we have
thus wept ? Undoubtedly not. Then it was the
pleasure which we had derived from the object then
dying, that made us cling so fondly to it ; and even
after the object be dead, so long as the memory of
that joy remains vividly on our minds, we shall mourn
over its departure. And let ./Eneas cavil at the word
selfishness as much as he please, neither he, nor any
other man, can deny the above fact. Does this, we
would ask, “ annihilate affection and treat it as a
chimera?” We see a stranger die with little or no
emotion.
All men, one would suppose, would have it for
their chief aim, to secure the enjoyment of God’s
favour ; and in order to do so, they will practice truth,
equity, and benevolence, so that the hope of thus
pleasing the divine mind enters into all their actions,
and is the means of affording them the most exquisite
pleasure. The mind thus naturally associates the idea
of pleasure with the performance of good actions,
until at last we intuitively perform them whenever an
opportunity occurs. Is it disgraceful to nature that
we should be on all occasions swayed by the hope of
future happiness, or the dread of future misery ? How
is it, that in the minds of infants, and, indeed, of all
who look not before them, but infer the future from the
past, that the prospect of immediate pleasure, or the
dread of immediate pain, is the only apparent motive
to action ? And, lastly, how is it that we often decline
a present enjoyment, because experience has taught
us that the amount of pain resulting from such en-
joyment surpasses in amount the pleasure we derive
originally ? These queries will require something
more than declamation to shew that the above facts
are not attributable to this universal spirit of selfish-
ness, or self-love, as we originally defined it.
We have been compelled in defence of our un-
fortunate article to refute some, at least, of ./Eneas’
statements : we trust, however, that our excellent
antagonist will perceive that all our remarks are made
in good will, and not without a sufficient cause.
* * *
History.
ANCIENT HISTORY: SECTION XXIV.
THE HISTORY OF ROME.
1. In the delineation of ancient history, Rome, after
the conquest of Greece, becomes the leading object of
attention ; and the history of this empire, in its pro-
gress to universal dominion, and afterwards in its
decline and fall, involves a collateral account of all
the other nations of antiquity which in those periods
are deserving of our consideration.
2. Although we cannot conjecture with certainty
as to the era when Italy was first peopled, we have
every reason to believe that it was inhabited by a
refined and cultivated nation many ages before the
Roman name was known. These were the Etruscans,
of whom there exists at this day monuments in the
fine arts, which prove them to have been a splendid,
luxurious, and highly polished people. Their alpha-
bet resembling the Phoenician, disposes us to believe
them of eastern origin. The Roman historians
mention them as a powerful and opulent nation long
before the origin of Rome, ‘ Tuscorum anteßomanum
imperium late terra marique opes patuere,’ Lib. v.
33 ; and Dionysius of Halicarnassus deduces most of
the religious rites of the Romans from Etruria.
3. The rest of Italy was divided among a number
of independent tribes or nations, comparatively in a
rude and uncultivated state ; Umbrians, Ligurians,
Sabines, Veientes,Latins, /Equi,Volsci, &c. Latium,
a territory of fifty miles in length and sixteen in
breadth, contained forty-seven independent cities or
states; the other adjacent states were divided in the
same manner—a state of society in which constant
warfare is unavoidable.
4. The origin of the city and state of Rome is
involved in great uncertainty. Dionysius supposes
two cities of that name to have existed, and to have


perished before the foundation of the city built by
Romulus. The vulgar account of the latter is, that
it was founded (752 b. c.) by a troop of shepherds or
banditti, who peopled their new city by carrying off
the wives and daughters of their neighbours the
Sabines.
5. The great outlines of the first constitution of
the Roman government, though generally attributed
to the political abilities of Romulus, seem to have a
natural foundation in the usages of barbarous nations,
and in the state of manners which existed in Italy
before the foundation of Rome. Other institutions
bear the traces of political skill and positive enact-
ment.
6. Romulus is said to have divided his people into
three tribes, and each tribe into ten curice. The
lands he distributed into three portions ; one for the
support of the government, another for the mainte-
nance of religion, and the third he divided into equal
portions of two acres to each Roman citizen. He
instituted a senate or council of 100 members (after-
wards increased to 200), to whom he gave power to
see the laws enforced, to consult concerning all affairs
of state, and to report their opinion to the people in
the ccmiiia or assemblies, who were invested with the
right of final determination in all matters of public
importance. The Patrician families were the de-
scendants of these first senators ( centum paires) ; so
that in a very short time a great distinction of rank
arose from birth among the Romans.,
7. The king had the nomination of the senators,
the privilege of assembling the people, and a right of
appeal in all questions of importance. He had the
command of the army, which at first comprehended
the whole body of the people. He was chief priest,
or Pontifex Maximus , and regulated everything that
concerned, or w r as even remotely connected with,
religion. He had, as a guard, twelve lictors, and to
these he added a troop of 300 horsemen named Ce-
leres or Equites (Roman knights), who became the
second rank in the state after the partricians. This
body was augmented by Tarquinius Priscus to 1800.
These regulations are of positive institution ; others
arose naturally from the state of society.
8. The patria potesias, or the power which every
father of a family enjoyed over his household, is of
the latter nature, being common to all barbarous
tribes. —The limitation of all arts to the slaves arose
from the constant employment of the citizens in war-
fare or in agriculture.
9. Other institutions bear also the stamp of politi-
cal knowledge and enlargement of ideas; such as the
Clientela, or the connexion of patron and client.
This admirable institution at once united the citizens,
and maintained an useful subordination 1 etween the
Patrician order and the Plebeian. Every Plebeian
was allow'ed to choose a senator for his patron, whose
duty it was to defend and protect him ; and he, in his
turn, received from his clients, not only homage, but
support and assistance when he required them.
10. The Sabines were the most formidable enemy
of the early Romans ; and a wise policy united for a
while the two nations into one state. After the death
of Romulus, who reigned thirty-seven years, Numa,
a Sabine, was elected king. His disposition was
pious and pacific, and he endeavoured to give his
people the same character. He pretended to divine
inspiration, in order to give the greater authority to
his laws, which in themselves were excellent. He
multiplied the national gods, built temples, and
instituted different classes of priests— Flamines, from
the flame-coloured tufts upon their caps; Salii (a
Saliendo), priests who had the charge of the sacred
buckler, which was said to have dropped from heaven,
&c., and a variety of religious ceremonies. The
Flamines officiated each in the service of a particular
deity; the Salii guarded the sacred bucklers ; the
Vestals cherished the sacred fire ; the Augurs and
Aruspices divined future events from the flight of
birds, and the entrails of victims. He built the tem-
ple of Janus, which was kept open during war, and
shut during peace. Most of the institutions of this
prince were calculated to encourage the pacific spirit;
and his policy consisted in using religion as an instru-
ment of government.—Numa reformed the calendar,
the year at twelve lunar months, and dis-
tinguishing the days for civil occupation ( Fasti)
from those dedicated to religious rest ( Nefasti ). Agri-
culture was lawful on the latter, as a duty of religion.
Numa reigned forty-three years, during the whole
of which time the temple of Janus remained shut;
so much does the disposition of a people depend on
the character of a sovereign.
11. Tullus Hostilius, the third king of Rome, of
warlike disposition, subdued the Albans, Fidenates,
and other neighbouring states. The Sabines, now
disunited from the Romans, w r ere among the most
powerful of their enemies. Tullus reigned thirty-
three years. The temple of Janus was opened, and
was not shut during his whole reign.
12. Aucus Martius, the grandson of Numa, was
elected king on the death of Tullus. He inherited
the piety and virtues of his grandfather, and joined
to these the talents of a warrior. He increased the
population of Rome, by naturalizing some of the
conquered states ; enlarged and fortified the city, and
built the port of Ostia at the mouth of the Tiber. He
reigned gloriously twenty-four years.
13. Tarquinius Priscus, the son of a citizen of
Corinth, popular from his wealth and liberality, was
elected to the vacant throne. He, owing his election
to the favour of some of the principal citizens, enlarged
the senate by 100 new members, chosen from the
plebeian families —these new senators were termed
‘ Patres minorum gentium.’ This body consisted now
of 300, at w'hich number it remained for some
centuries (down to the period of the Gracchi, when
it was enlarged to 600), Tarquin w r as victorious in
his wars, and he adorned and improved the city with
works of utility and magnificence. He caused the
w r alls to be built of hewn stone ; he built the Circus
Maximus, or Hippodrome, for the celebration of public
games, for races, and athletic exercises; the Cloacce,
those immense common sew’ers, which lead to the
belief that the new Rome had been built on the ruins
of an ancient city of greater magnitude ; he also com-
menced the building of the Capitol, on the top of the
Tarpeian hill. Tarquinius was assassinated at the
instigation of the sons of Ancus Martius, in the thirty -
eighth year of his reign.
Late Scholars.—Alfred the Great learned his alphabet at
twelve years of age ; Moliere could barely read and write at
the age of fourteen ; Dr. Carter began his studies at nineteen;
Valerianus learned to read at fifteen, and Sir Isaac Newton,
according to his own statement, was inattentive to study, and
ranked low at school till the age of twelve.


LIFE BEHIND THE COUNTER;
OR, THE DRAPER’S ASSISTANT.
MISS CAMILLA TOULMIN.
u Send away the tea things, Mrs. M.: it is past seven
o’clock —Herbert must have dropped in somevihere, I
am sure,” was the exclamation of. Mr. Markham, on a
certain winter’s evening, as, crossing his slippered feet
before the fire, he returned a large silver watch to its
stand on the mantle-piece, and drew from his pocket
the evening paper.
“ Aunt,” whispered a gentle voice on the other side
of the room, ‘‘may I ask Jenny to save the tea-pot,
in case Herbert should not have had either dinner or
tea 1 ? I know he is gone about a situation —he took
down the particulars of two or three advertisements
this morning.”
“ You know, Alice, the servants ” H%re,
however, Mrs. Markham’s speech was cut short by a
ring at the bell, so we can only surmise what the re-
mainder would have been. Herbert had returned ;
but before he is introduced to the reader, let me say a
few words about his uncle and aunt, the present host
and hostess of himself and his sister.
Mr. Markham was what is called one of the most
“ respectable” men in the city, and that emphatic
word comprehends a world of properties. He was in
the grocery line of business—his shop situated in one
of those narrow, crooked streets, the tall houses of
which, it is said (if not swept away to make healthy
openings and modern improvements,) may still outlast
the buildings of to-day. In that house had he begun
business; and in that house Mr. John, his only son,
married and taken into partnership long ago, now re-
sided ; his “ respectable” parent having of late years
preferred the luxuries of a morning and evening ride
in his one-horse chaise to and from his suburban re-
sidence. It is not worth while to say on which side
of London this was chosen, for the suburbs have a
strong family likeness, differing only as much as rich
and poor relations may do. They have all their
Minerva Terraces and Belle Vue Cottages, and, now-
adays, Albert Hoads and Victoria Squares. They
all, too, have their little-great people, from the reign-
ing beauty, whose Sunday attire sets the fashions of
the place, to perchance some county magistrate or ci-
devant Lord Mayor, who is looked on as a second
Solon providentially sent to enlighten the world.
Trifling as such weaknesses seem, at which we are all
inclined to smile, grave mischief arises from them ;
for almost all our social evils arise from a want of
that extended sympathy which, stretching over the
barriers of class, should communicate good—like
light—without being impoverished—nay, multiplying
it rather, a s by reflecting mirrors. Now, the system
of cliques, whether they be of the witty or wealthy,
or of the little-great people of a suburban neighbour-
hood, strikes at the root of all this. It hedges a little
party round with a thick stone wall, impervious to
mortal sight—-while the melancholy part of the affair
is, that the poor deluded prisoners think their dungeon
is the world. Mr. Markham’s world consisted of the
people with whom he transacted business in the day
(he always dined with his son in town,) and the two
or three neighbours they visited ; but as they all
belonged to the same genus, 1 do not think he ever
knocked out a cube of his wall, through which to take
a peep beyond. His only daughter, an elderly young
lady of about thirty, and his wife, completed the home,
circle, to which his orphan nephew and niece had
lately been introduced.
The father of Herbert and Alice had been a very
different character from his elder brother. He had
been a music master in a provincial town ; and though
early left a widower, had brought up his children in
much respectability. But so precarious did he know
such a means of existence as his own to be, that it had
long been the wish of his heart to establish Herbert
in trade. Of his brother he knew little else than that
he was a prosperous man ; and when he found that
an illness of some standing had assumed a dangerous
turn, it was a very natural thing to leave his children
to the guardianship of his own relative, and two hun-
dred pounds, the savings of a life, to his care, till they
should be of age. Mr. Markham considered that the
only sensible wish tl poor Charles” had ever expressed
was that Herbert should be a tradesman ; it met his
cordial approbation ; but as for advancing any of the
two hundred pounds for apprenticing him, he should
do nothing of the kind. The youth was nearly seven-
teen —let him get a situation which would “ lead to
something.” Alice, who was three years her brother’s
senior, was equally desirous of independence; and
perhaps the fondest hope of both their hearts was that
they should not be separated. Yet they both knew
that there were few situations in which this would be
the case, therefore was Alice proportionably grateful
when she heart from Herbert on that eventful evening
the cause which had detained him so late. He had
found employment for himself and sister as assistants
in an extensive drapery establishment, nothing re-
maining to be settled except Alice seeing the parties,
and the necessary reference to their uncle being
made.
What a benevolent dispensation of Providence it is,
that youth soaring aloft on the wings of hope and ex-
pectation, and looking at life as it will look through
its own brightly-coloured imagination, should find in
its own untried spirit the strongest weapon of defence
against the world with which it must wrestle ! How
else could the suffering youth of this great metropolis,
not counted by tens and by hundreds, but by tens of
thousands, live through their fearful course of slavery,
in numbers sufficient to make at least their deep-toned
cry audible. Alas! alas! we take no account of the
myriads who have sunk after their term of suffering
into the crowded sepulchres of the dense city. And
yet how great a thing is every human heart with its
little world of hopes and fears, its warm affections,
its trusting faith, its bright imaginings ! And how
desolate indeed—desolate as the last survivor of a
world’s wreck—must that one be who hath not some
dear ones to mourn and rejoice with him ! So deso-
late, that I w r ould fain believe the earth counts them
by units ; and least of all do I believe they would be
found among the struggling and oppressed—for such
have warm sympathies. But this is a mass of misery,
past, irrevocable, though good for us sometimes to
think on ; there is another picture yet more painful,
because more present to our sight, and more disastrous
in the results. The myriads who do not die, but pur-
chase a lingering life by the sacrifice of health for its
remainder, or, worse still, the myriads whose minds
are warped by evil training, and then in their weak-
ness are corrupted by overpowering temptation—who
are themselves made selfish by cruel oppression, and


whose tempers are irritated (catching the infection
beyond all cure) by the endurance of constant acts of
petty tyranny ! Reader, is this a digression 1 Nay,
only a dirge ere we draw up the curtain.
The establishment of Messrs. Scrape, Haveall, and
Co., was situated in one of the principal thoroughfares
of London. From small beginnings it had grown
into an 11 immense concern over the squares of plate
glass, each of which was as large as a moderate-sized
dining table, which formed the shop windows, ran a
line of figures, intimating that five houses had been
taken in, namely from 70, Street, to 74, inclu-
sive. Brussels carpets and gilded mirrors adorned
the interior, showing to advantage the gorgeous fabrics
—here suspended in graceful festoons, there in studied
but apparently careless disorder, again in massive
heaps—conveying altogether an air of wealth and
profusion that might make the heart tingle with a
just pride at the power, energy, and resources of our
princely merchants. But Messrs. Scrape and Haveall
required—to cut their satins, measure ribbons, fold
shawls, and perform duties of the like kind, innume-
rable as are the stars of heaven —nearly one hundred
assistants, mostly young men and women between
twenty and thirty years of age, though a few of them
had passed the latter period of life, and some—Herbert
and Alice Markham, for instance —were still in their
teens ; and the heart, turning to such blighted youth,
forgets wealth and splendour.
It was towards the close of a May day—bright
May, when the hedge-rows are sweet, and the haw-
thorn in blossom ; when even the dusty lilacs in the
London squares put forth their pale flowers, and the
smoke-begrimed sparrow's twitter their merriest note.
But the large rambling shop of Messrs. Scrape,
Haveall, and Co., with its long straight counters, and
winding ways, where the houses taken in joined one
another, was redolent of anything rather than spring
flowers ; the atmosphere formed by so many human
breaths being of that close, unpleasant character which
makes the buyer of a yard of ribbon exclaim, even
on a winter’s day, “ How pleasant to get into the fresh
air again !” Walking up and down the shop, occa-
sionally speaking in courteous phrase to a customer,
and often reprimanding an assistant, was a man of
about forty, It was not that his features were irre-
gular, but there shone through them so cold and hard
an expression, that every one would have called him
an ordinary man. He walked with a shuffling gait,
and it might have been observed that he wore a pe-
culiar sort of gaiter, the better to support and conceal
the bandages it was necessary to wear ; for, as linen-
drapers’ assistants are never allowed to sit, except
during the few minutes in which they snatch their
meals, swollen legs and absolute disease are the quite
common results of fourteen or fifteen hours’ stand-
ing; and this is a low average to what is and has
This superintendent, or shop-walker hardened
into a tyrant by the wrongs of his own youth wa J
speaking to a lady near the door, when Alice and
Herbert chanced to meet, without either of them being
at the moment engaged in waiting on a customer.
They were at the further end of the shop, anu in-
stinctively withdrew a few paces till they brought
themselves behind a pile of goods, which shielded
them from observation. To converse in business
hours, even if there was nothing to do, was a for-
bidden pleasure—nevertheless, it was indulged in for
a few moments, especially as it was evident Alice had
been weeping bitterly.
“ No, no, not for myself,” said she in answer to
his inquiries; it is that you should have acted their
falsehoods as I have seen you do to-day.”
“ What have you seen me do ?” replied Herbert,
his face flushing, and yet in a tone of voice that
implied a resolution to brave out aught he had done.
• e A poor trick; a lady wished some silk —it was
not that what you showed her was too inferior for her
taste, but it was not dear enough, in her opinion, to
be good; you saw this—you feigned to fetch another
piece, but you only cut that in half, and added a
shilling a yard to the price.”
“ And, suppose I had not done so, she would have
left4he shop without purchasing.”
“ Well?”
“ Do you know why poor Martin was dismissed so
suddenly last week '?”
“ I did not hear the reason exactly—impertinence,
they said.”
“ A refusal to do such things as these ; and by a
perversity of fortune, thrice in one day persons who
spoke to him went away without buying.”
“ But, Herbert, wrong cannot come right,” re-
turned Alice, raising her earnest, tearful eyes again
to his.
Herbert put his hand affectionately upon her
shoulder, and was about to speak, when an angry
voice crying “ Markham —Mr. Markham, w'here are
you V’ quickly separated them ; yet was it a moment
they could never forget; a seemingly trifling incident
like many we can all bring to mind, that take fast
hold of that memory whether we will or not. In
reality, it was the moment in which the sister felt
that the influence—the sort of affectionate authority
her three years’ seniority had hitherto given her, was
over. The chain of habit was broken : she could now
only lure to right by soft persuasion or bright exam-
ple. Yet one had overheard their discourse, and had
read both their hearts, by that intuitive knowledge of
human nature which genius gives ; for genius lived
and had its being in at least one noble heart behind
that counter ; genius of that high order which makes
its possessor the pioneer to a promised land, even
when meeting, as more or less such minds so often
do, with scorn and ingratitude ; forming, as it were,
the living angle of a w r edge, that makes the opening,
to die perchance in achieving it,
“ If" we can get out by half-past ten to-night, will
you take a stroll with me said William Howard to
Herbert Markham, an hour or so after the conversa-
tion of the latter with his sister, to which I have just
alluded.
“ Why, I don’t know, lam sure.” replied Herbert
in a hesitating manner ;“ I half promised to go with
some of them to a shilling concert, and to supper
afterwards.”
“ You had better change your mind,” returned the
other ; “ a walk in the fresh air—say across one of
the bridges—will do you much more good, besides
costing you nothing.”
“ Oh ! I don’t mind a few shillings.”
“ I know that; but I wish you would come with
me instead —I really want to speak to you.”
It seemed that William Howard could always have
his will, when he took the trouble of trying for it.


And yet none of them could account for his influence,
although many felt it. In person he was slight and
fair, with a high forehead shaded by soft brown hair,
which, though he could not have numbered more
than eight and twenty years, w'as already streaked with
white ; his eyes were of that changing colour which
so frequently belongs to genius, and which might be
called chameleon grey ; while, alas ! the hectic cheek
and frequent cough told a tale of suffering to those
who could read such signs.
Herbert scarcely knew how it was that he had been
so easily persuaded to give up the concert; yet cer-
tain it is, that towards midnight he found himself in-
haling the pure air from the river, instead of the
vitiated atmosphere of a crowded room. Moreover,
he was enjoying the conversation of his companion
extremely ; perhaps, 100, his vanity w r as a little grati-
fied that Howard —whom he soon discovered to be
no ordinary person —should think it worth while to
converse u'ith a youth like himself so seriously ; for
they had, in fact, become quite confidential, and they
spoke of their mutual hardships with the freedom of
friendship. They stood on Waterloo Bridge, the
slanting shadow of w'hose arches w r as thrown distinctly
on the rippling waters by the bright moon above, as it
seemed to rend asunder, every now and then, the
fleecy floating clouds. There was a hush—a repose
—about the scene, affecting even to the most careless,
after the fatigue, and noise, and feverish hurry of the
day; while north and south, and east and west,arose
the darkening masses of domes and dwellings, and
above them the lurid glare, which once observed, is
always recognised as the reflection of London’s
myriad gas lights.
“ How wealth and poverty neighbour one another !”
said William Howard, after a pause ; “ and yet they
are unknown to each other, and have worlds more
widely different than thousands who dwell in different
hemispheres. This is the mischief—the intense sel-
fishness which, having no faith in a governing Provi-
dence, will plan and purpose for its little self, accord-
ing to its little knowledge, getting entangled in an
inextricable manner in its vain efforts to work out
truth from a falsity, ‘ right’ out of ‘ wrong.’ It is
this fearful selfishness, this want of human sympathy,
that is the canker stretching through the social chain,
even to the sufferings of you and me.”
“ Perhaps replied Herbert, but half understand-
ing his companion, and yet deeply interested in their
discourse ; “ but how is it to be cured ? I have heard
politicians say it is easy to discover a fault, but often
very difficult to remove it.”
“ By working a different problem,” said Howard,
without attending to the last observation—“ by work-
ing from right, whithersoever it may lead, instead of
struggling after happiness by the cross-roads w'hich
have no connexion with it. It is by moral influence
—no other force—that the suffering must have their
wrongs redressed. The light will come—the dawn is
already apparent.”
“ Is it true that you write poetry said Herbert ;
a strange rejoinder, yet not mal-apropos.
William Howard smiled as he continued —“ I do
not call my verses by so dignified a name. Strange
that, to those who find no such channel for their
thoughts, the effort seems extraordinary —to me it is
so natural. But, Herbert Markham, it was not to
talk of poetry that I asked you to walk with me. I
have lived in this world, and a beautiful world it is,
ten years longer than you have ; will you listen to
me, and hear my advice, as if I were an elder
brother ?”
“ That will I, and gratefully,” said Herbert, with
real emotion—for he felt the reverence, and yet eleva-
tion, we most of us experience when brought into
communion with a superior mind.
“ You are surrounded by temptations—strong ones,
I grant, if you look not beyond the present moment;
but I entreat you yield not to them. Independent of
your own loss, in choosing a path that must lead to
ruin, remember that it is by showing ourselves worthy
of liberty that we slaves shall become free. Every
falling off of an individual is a backward step for
our fellow-sufferers. Already a small body is
organised, and we meet often—will you add another
voice, another unit, to a little party who, working
out their principles in the light of religion and
morality, hope confidently to bring about a better
order of things'?”
“ But I am so ignorant,” exclaimed Herbert; what
can I do?”
“ Only at present be worthy—and yield not to the
vile trickeries which disgust while they degrade.”
“ And do you never,” replied Herbert with real
astonishment —“ and do you never name two prices,
or sell faded articles at candle-light, or soil things
to make them seem a bargain, or ”
“ Never!”
11 And yet have been seven years in the house?”
“ At first I suffered severely, and was fined half
my salary for my indiscretions ; for the list of fineable
offences was even longer then than it is now. But by
one of those consequences—l will not call them acci-
dents—which follow us on the right path, in some un-
looked-for manner, it has happened that once I was
the means of preventing an extensive robbery ; and
that three of Messrs. Haveall’s best customers have
for years insisted on being waited upon by myself—
these reasons, I believe, induce them to put up with
my ‘ folly ;’ and I tell you again there is a little band
who will not lend themselves to these vile trickeries.”
“ And yet for seven years you have not bettered
yourself. It is a hopeless prospect.”
“ Think of doing right—and the bettering for all
of us will come. But, speaking in a worldly point of
view, others who have followed the plan have been
benefitted personally by it ; for I need scarcely say
that those who resist this sort of temptation are not
likely to fall into the habit of seeking bad company ;
and the very money they have saved from the gulf of
idle dissipation has enabled them to start in business
for themselves.”
“ And you —why not you?”
“ I am still poor—for I have my dear mother to
support.”
“ What is it your little band are struggling for ?”
returned Herbert,
“ To procure an alteration of existing customs, by
which our time of daily labour may be reduced to
twelve, or, as I say, ten hours daily. lam satisfied
it only remains for our wrongs to be known for them
to be redressed ; but the evil has grown so gradually
and stealthily, that habit has accustomed the world
to its frightful reality, and, slow to change, it cannot
at first understand the miseries of this monstrous
system, Even those who are the greatest sufferers,


the most ruined in health and degraded in mind, are
often the last to stir for their own relief. In fact,
the movement is taking place among the few whose
establishments are conducted on upright principles
towards their customers, and humanity to their
servants; for, my young friend, we have the sanction
of some employers on our side, and honour and grati-
tude are their due. It is our individual misfortune
to be under the control of narrow-minded masters,
who have not even the understanding to feel the
cruelty they are practising ; the men who always clog
the wheel when social advancement is intended. And
this is to be accounted for easily, I think. But come,
promise me that you will be one of us—if only for
your sweet sister’s sake—promise !”
“ I do —and I will pray to God to help me to keep
such promise. Howard, I shall never forget to-night;
but there you are coughing again—is it well for you
to be out so late'?” And as they •walked away from
the bridge, the deep tones of St. Paul’s boomed forth
themidnighthour ; while William Howard’scontinued
cough measured time—the mortal term of his life—
in a manner as significant.
(To be continued.)
Review.
SCENES IN MANEROO, N.S.W.
By an Australian Shepherd.
We have been favoured with the perusal of a long manuscript
poem bearing the above title, written by a person in the lowly
occupation of an Australian shepherd. The manuscript is
none of the clearest, and as the poem extends to upwards of a
thousand lines, a task is imposed on the reader which would
not be felt in perusing the same quantity of printed matter.
But notwithstanding this disadvantage, we must confess that
we have derived pleasure from the perusal of the poem, though
we think that its author, by using the pruning knife pretty
freely, would improve it in more ways than one. We have
not read the poem very critically: but have marked several
passages as we proceeded, to remind us of the connexion, and
will lay a few of these passages before our readers, to give
them a sample of the whole. The connexion of the different
parts is rather loose, and the work might not inaptly be
denominated “An Australian Shepherd’s Musings.” We are
glad to find that the leisure hours of a shepherd’s life in this
colony can be turned to so much account. The writer, we
presume, will be none the worse shepherd for allowing his eye
to wander occasionally from his fleecy charge to contemplate
and admire the beauties and sublimities of the scenes which
surround him in the solitude of his occupation.
We are always glad to encourage and call forth talent
wherever we find it, whether in the workshop, at the plough,
or in the bush. We have often found it in all these circum-
stances, and are bettef pleased to find it there, where it is
hardly expected, than in the productions of the learned and
the great. We are especially pleased to find the seeds of
poetry scattered over the wilds of the interior of this colony,
because we feel the humanizing effects they must produce on
the minds of those who are secluded from society, and left to
hold communior^ with themselves and with nature. It is in
the bush of Australia, while tending his flocks, and far from
the busy hum of the city, that the shepherd, who has any of
the poet’s soul within him, can appreciate the truth and
beauty of the noble poet’s sentiments —can revel in the sub-
limity of the desert solitude—and give creation in his mind’s
eye. to a fair creature, purer and lovelier than the living
daughters of Eve, that grow around us like roses in the wil-
derness of life. What are society and boon companionship to
him who can exclaim with Byron—
Oh ! that the desert were my dwelling-place,
With one fair Spirit for my minister,
That I might all forget the human race,
And hating no one, love but only her!
Ye elements ! in whose ennobling stir
I feel myself exalted —can ye not
Accord me such a being? Do I err
In deeming such inhabit many a spot?
Though with them to converse can rarely be our lot.
There is a pleasure in the pathless woods—
There is society where none intrudes—
I love not man the less, but nature more,
From these our interviews, in which 1 steal
From all I may be, or have been before,
To mingle with the universe and feel
What I can ne’er express, yet cannot all conceal.
In composing his “ Scenes in Maneroo,” our Shepherd was
actuated with feelings such as these. He has not, it is true,
given expression to them in language so forcible as the lines
we have quoted ; but it is evident that our singing-bird is not
altogether unfledged : his wings have borne him aloft before
his present flight, and if he has not as yet reached the upper
regions of the air, we must remember that such flights are
reserved for the gifted few. Many of his descriptions have
considerable freedom and power. The mechanism of his
verses betrays but little effort, and shows that the writer has a
correct ear for the music of poetry. The poem is interspersed
with sundry detached songs, many of which we think might,
with advantage, be transferred from the body of the poem*
and inserted among the smaller pieces, if not entirely
omitted.
But neither our space nor our time will allow us to enter
into details, and our readers will form a better idea of the
merits or defects of the work, from the few selections which
we will now lay before them. To the poem is prefixed the
following sonnet: —
From out the scenes where late my footsteps strayed,
Fain would I snatch one flower of poesy
Thy wreath to deck, in beauty wildly free,
Nursling of nature —Slumbering in the shade,
Strewed o’er the bosom of sequestered glade
Earth’s fairest offspring smile —with cheek of bloom
And roseate lips impregnant with perfume ;
Alas! so fair, these flowers would quickly fade *
In my rude grasp—’tis from the mountains steep
„ Yon tender shoot my to keep,
To bind the wreath a votary wills to twine,
As nature’s offering laid at wisdom’s shrine :
Its sombre leaves of dark undying stain
Befit my hand and moral of my strain.
The first twenty-three stanzas give a description of the
scenery viewed from the peak of Wallarooka, embracing
Delegate, the Snowy Mountains, and the Thulka range on
the river Maclachlan. As we have never traversed this dis-
trict, we cannot speak of the truth of the description ; but
there are some portraits of human beings which, though we
have never known the originals, strike us as being correct
likenesses, from the clever handling of the artist; and we
look upon the descriptions before us somewhat in a similar
point of view. The language is upon the whole vigorous, and
we cannot doubt of its truth and correctness, from the single
circumstance, that it would have been much more difficult to
draw from the imagination those minute features of the scenes
described, which give them character, and which must have
been present to the eye of the observer, when they were so
circumstantially painted. Without dwelling on the subject,
however, we think it right to fortify our remarks, and put our
readers in a situation to judge for themselves, by a few' speci-
mens of the poem. We commence with the first stanzas ;


I stand and gaze from Wallarooka’s peak,
O’er nature's amphitheatre displayed ;
Vainly my enraptured eye does eager seek
To scan the whole, magnificent arrayed :
In one long untired gaze, as I behold, *
New beauties rise, as prisms lights unfold.
*****
Deep in the winding of sequestered glen,
Where the clear spring from ’neath the mossy stone
Fresh gushes forth, retired from haunts of men
The lone herds graze, nor wish from thence to roam :
Amid the grass that clothes the mountain’s sides,
As glittering snake the noiseless streamlet glides.
*****
In the far west, where sinks the god of day,
Dying in glory, a vast Alpine chain
Of snow clad mountains, hold their sovereign sway,
Dazzling in beauty as the ocean main—
Man’s path is not on them ; no footstep there
Sullies the brilliant forms, all coldly fair.
*****
Beneath the mountain cliff, whose rocky crest
In gloomy shade veils morning sunbeams bright,
Are fairy mounts, in spring’s gay colours drest,
And tender shrubs, sparkling with dewy light,
Like some fair bride who, amid joys and fears,
Deep blushing sighs, smiling amid her tears.
We have then a description of three lonely graves on the
brow of Wallarooka —written with feeling : and we are next
favoured with the circumstances that attend the death
of the Sleepers, and some elegiac stanzas to the Dead. In
strange contrast to this mournful scene, the poet immediately
breaks off in a song on the Bridal of Spring, which has already
appeared in our columns.
It would take more space than we can afford, to enter into
anything like a minute criticism of the work. Indeed, we
must confess, in justice to the writer, that we have not had
leisure to peruse the work very carefully. We have glanced
over it, however, and our impression is—that it would form a
small volume which would reflect some credit on Australia,
whose poets have not hitherto been very numerous.
The poem is interspersed with many moral reflections,
which speak favorably for the heart and life of the writer. He
is a teetotaller —or, at all events, not very friendly to the wine
bibbers of Sydney, whom he invites to taste a healthier
draught—namely, the fresh air of the country. As an induce-
ment to follow his precepts, he gives them a picture of the
intemperate man wasting his substance in riotous living—
shows them his heart-broken wife and deserted children—and
closes the picture with the drunkard’s miserable death. Our
Shepherd poet has also given us some detached thoughts on
a subject with which he must be familiar—the lights and
shadows of an Australian Shepherd’s life. The poem con-
cludes with some stanzas on the prospective greatness of
Australia—a subject which it is very delightful to contemplate
in these days of darkness and distress.
We should be happy to see the poem in print, for we could
then be better able to judge of its merits than is possible in
its present shape.
Varieties.
Female Simplicity. —Simplicity of heart is unquestionably
a great charm in woman; yet I cannot think it superior to
integrity, because it consists more in ignorance of evil, and
consequently of temptation, than in principle, which would
withstand both. It consists chiefly in that unruffled serenity
of soul, which suspects no lurking mischief beneath the fair-
surface of things in general—which trusts, and confides, and is
happy in this confidence ; because it has never been deceived,
nor has learned the fatal mystery of deceiving others. It is
like the dew on the untrodden grass, the bloom of the flower,
the down on the butterfly’s wing, the purity of newly-fallen
snow, before even a breath of wind has swept over it. Alas !
what has it to do with this world of ours ; where so many rude
feet tread, and where so many rough winds blow,— Mrs. Ellis.
National Characteristics. “England,” the Temps
(Paris paper) observes, “ is a vast manufactory, a great
laboratory, a universal counting-house. France is a rich
farm, tending to turn itself into a manufactory. Germany is
an' uncultivated field, because they are philosophers and not
peasants who till it. Southern Italy is a villa in ruins.
Northern Italy is an artificial prairie. Belgium is a forge.
Holland is a canal. Sweden and Denmark are carpenters’
yards. Poland is a sandy heath. Russia is an ice-house.
Switzerland is a chalet. Greece is a field in a state of
nature. Turkey is a field fallow. India is a gold mine.—
Egypt is a workshop for apprentices. Africa is a furnace.
Algiers is a nursery ground. Asia is a grove. The Antilles
are sugar refineries. South America is a store. North
America is a till full. Spain is a till empty.
A Touch of Modesty. —Mr. Bennett, editor of the New
York Herald , says, “ I mean to make the daily newspaper the
great moral and intellectual engine of modern days. Its
capabilities—its power its influence —never have been fully
tested. Founded on the cash and specie system, and conducted
on the principle of a division of labour, I shall be enabled, by
its increasing profits and great revenue, already large, to con-
centrate upon my establishment all the available and original
talent of the country. Beyond the reach of broken banks—
of rascally politicians—of ignorant booksellers —of bigoted
clergy—of each class of society alike—my great purpose is to
raise the daily newspaper press to the highest rank in lite-
rature, taste, morals, and independence. In two short years,
out of a beggarly 500 dollars and a vigorous constitution, both
mentally and physically, I have attained a position from which
I can control and manage my future advances in civilization
just as I please. The miserable newspaper editors around
me I despise as I do the durt under my feet. They are
ignorant, s lly, vain, empty, whiskered, lazy, licentious, corrupt,
and wicked. lam only in the beginning of my career, and
they know it. With the great and independent public on my
side, what care I for all the opposition that the O’Haggerties,
the Webbs, the Hamblins, the Westerns, or the Hoyts, or any
other ‘ loafers’ may raise to my progress ? Thus do I move
in the race of immortality, with all the pretty women, cash
dealers, and philosophers, cheering me onward.
W’hat is Poetry ?—Poetry is the language of the imagina-
tion and the passions. It relates to whatever gives immediate,
pleasure or pain to the human mind. It comes home to the
bosoms and businesses of men ; for nothing but what so comes
home to them in the most general and intelligible shape can
be a subject for poetry. Poetry is the universal language
which the heart holds with Nature and itself. It has been the
study and delight of mankind in all ages. Many people
suppose that poetry is something to be found only in books,
contained in lines of ten syllables, with like endings ; but
wherever there is a sense of beauty, or power, or harmony, as
in the motion of a wave of the sea, in the growth of a flower,
that “spreads its sweet leaves to the air, and dedicates its
beauty to the sun,” there is poetry in its birth. Fear is
poetry ; hope is poetry ; love is poetry; hatred is poetry;
contempt, jealousy, remorse, admiration, wonder, pitv, despair,
or madness, are all poetry. Poetry is that fine particle within
that expands, rarifies, refines, raises our whole being; without
it “ man’s life is poor as beasts.” Man is a poetical animal.
The child is a poet, in fact, when he first plays at hide-and-
seek, or repeats the story of Jack the Giant-killer: the shep-
herd-boy is a poet when he first crowns his mistress with a
garland of flowers; the countryman when he stops to look at
the rainbow; the city apprentice when he gazes after the
Lord Mayor’s show ; the miser when he hugs his gold; the
courtier, who builds his hopes upon a smile ; the savage, who
paints his idol with blood; the slave, who worships a tyrant
who fancies himself a god; the vain, the ambitious, the proud,
the choleric man, the hero and the coward, the beggar and
the king, the rich and the poor, the young and the old, all
live in a world of their own making; and the poet does no
more than describe what all the others think and act. — Hazlitt.
Wilkie’s Nationality. —“ Thomson, ye maun be a Scotch
Thomson, I’ll warrant,” said Wilkie to Henry Thomson, as
they sat for the first time at an academy dinner. “ I’m of
that ilk, sir,” was his reply ; “ my father was a Scotchman.”
“Was he really?” exclaimed Wilkie, grasping the other’s
hand quite brotherly; “and my mother was Irish!” “Ay,
ay, was she really?” and the hand relaxed its fervour; “ and
I was born in England.” Wilkie let go Thomson’s hand
altogether, turned his back on him, and indulged in no further
conversation.
It’s gude to dread the warst, the best will be the welcomer.


The Moralist.
CHARITY.
Happy is the man who hath sown in his breast the seeds of
benevolence : the produce thereof shall be charity and love.
From the fountain of his heart shall rise rivers of goodness ;
and the streams shall overflow for the benefit of mankind.
He assisteth the poor in their trouble; he rejoiceth in
furthering the prosperity of all men.
He censureth not his neighbour, he believeth not the tales
of envy and malevolence, neither repeateth he their slanders.
He forgiveth the injuries of men, he wipeth them from his
remembrance ; revenge and malice have no place in his heart.
For evil he returneth not evil; tie hateth not even his
enemies, but requiteth their injustice with friendly admonition.
The griefs and anxieties of men excite his compassion ; he
endeavoureth to alleviate the weight of their misfortunes, and
the pleasure of success rewardeth his labour.
He calmeth the fury, he healeth the quarrels of angry men,
and preventeth the mischiefs of strife and animosity.
He promoteth in his neighbourhood peace and good-will,
and his name is repeated with praise and benedictions.
MORAL MAXIMS.
ALPHABETICALLY ARRANGED.
No. 25.
Be slow to promise, and quick to perform.
Be sure you raise no more spirits than you can conjure down.
Be timely wise, rather than wise in time.
Betray no trust, divulge no secret.
Better are small fish than an empty dish.
Better be head of the yeomanry than the tail of the gentry.
Better come at the latter end of a feast, than at the begin-
ing of a fray.
Better do it, than wish it done.
Better face a danger once than be always in fear.
Better go abuut than fall into the ditch.
Better go away longing than loathing.
Better have one plough going than two cradles,
Charity.— Our fallibility, and the shortness of our know-
ledge, should make us peaceable and gentle. Because I may
be mistaken, I must not be dogmatical and confident, peremp-
tory and imperious. I will not break the certain laws of
charity, for a doubtful doctrine or an uncertain truth.—
Whichcote.
Pride and Insolence. —If there be anything monstrous
or prodigious in nature, it is a proud creature and an insolent
sinner.— lbid.
The Death of Friends. —The wreck of fortune, the
thwarting of ambition, the failure in enterprise, great though
it be, are endurable evils; the never-dying hope that youth is
blessed with, will find its resting place still within the breast,
and the baffled and beaten will struggle on unconquered: but
for the death of friends, for the loss of those in whom our
dearest affections were centred, there is no solace: the terrible
“ never” of the grave knows no remorse, and even memory,
that in our saddest hours can bring bright images and smiling
faces before us, calls up here only the departed shade ot hap-
piness. The desolation of the heart is never perfect till it has
felt the echoes of a last farewell upon earth reverberating
within it. In all the ties which affection and friendship
weave around us, one vacant spot is there, unseen and
unknown by others, which no blandishments of love, no
caresses of friendship can fill up ; although the rank grass and
the tall weeds of the church-yard may close around the hum-
ble tomb, the cemetery of the heart is holy and sacred, pure
from all the troubled thoughts and daily cares of the busy
world. To that hallowed spot do we retire as into our chamber,
and when unrewarded efforts bring discomfiture and misery to
our minds, when friends are false, and cherished hopes are
•blasted, we think on those who never ceased to love, and in
the lonely solitude of our affliction we call upon those who
hear not, and may never return.
Success.— Want of judgment may be evinced, as well by
regarding success as improbable where it is probable, as by
regarding it probable where it is improbable. Bentham.
Spiritual Beings. —Can any good understanding, duly
weighing the works of God, believe that all the celestial
regions, and the whole etherial space, are empty void, and tree
from visible and rational creatures, except a few human souls .
- Burnet,
Select Poetry.
LANGUAGE.
Plain English, undefiled, correctly pure,
Where native force and nervous sounds allure,
Now rarely greets us in the gauzy page,
Spun out to suit this puffing, piping age.
In Latin patch-work, and in French brocade,
Twisted and tortured, see our language fade;
A mongrel compost, called a polished style,
Mere flippant, fine-wove drivel, crude and vile—
With this the greasy press eternal teems, —•
For this Rag Fair is robb’d to raise the reams !
Montgomery.
VERSIFICATION.
Many by numbers judge a poet’s song ;
And smooth or rough, with them, is right or wrong :
In the bright Muse though thousand charms conspire,
Her voice is all these tuneful fools admire ;
Who haunt Parnassus but to please their ear,
Not mend their minds ; as some to church repair
Not for the doctrine, but the music there.
These, equal syllables alone require,
Though oft the ear the open vowels tire;
While expletives their feeble aid do join,
And ten low words oft creep in one dull line :
While they ring round the same unvaried chimes,
With sure returns of still expected rhymes ;
Where’er you find “the cooling western breeze,”
In the next line, “ it whispers through the trees:”
If crystal streams “with pleasing murmurs creep,”
The reader’s threaten’d (not in vain) with “ sleep
Then at the last and only couplet, fraught
With some unmeaning thing they call a thought,
A needless Alexandrine ends the song,
That, like a wounded snake drags its slow length along.
True ease in writing comes from art, not chance,
,4s those move easiest who have learn’d to dance,
’Tis not enough that harshness gives offence,
The sound must seem an echo to the sense :
Soft is the strain when Zephyr gently blows,
And the smooth stream in smoother numbers flows;
But when loud surges lash the sounding shore,
The hoarse rough verse should like the torrent roar:
When Ajax strives some rock’s vast weight to throw,
The line too labours and the words move slow;
Not so when swift Camilla scours the plain,
Flies o’er th’ unbending corn, and skims along the mai
POPE.
USE AND ABUSE OF PUNCTUATION.
OR, THE PUNCTUIST’S TEST.
I saw a peacock : with a fiery tail
I saw a comet: lately pour down hail
I saw the clouds : bedeck’d with ivy ’round
I saw an aged oak : creep on the ground
I saw an ant: that swallowed up a whale
1 saw a foaming sea : brim full of ale
T saw a glass ; full fifty-five feet deep
I saw a well : awak’d from balmy sleep
I saw the sun : at twelve o’clock at nigbt
I saw the man, who saw this wondrous sight!
— Niblock’s Textuary.
ALLITERATION: LETTERS B AND H.
ON CARDINAL YVOLSEY : BORN, 1471 ; AND DIED NOV. 28, 1 '•
Begot by butchers; feut, by iishops Z>red :
How h\gh his highness fcolds his /taughty he ad!—. *•
N.B. To mix the utile with the dulce, we propose e
Punctuist’s Test as an exercise to the young English sell. ;
and also the second line of the Alliterative Couplet as a » iy
exercise to those who do not duly aspirate the letter (h in
those words which require to be aspirated.


i&oture.
The Editor does not hold himself responsible for the opinions and
assertions contained in the correspondence and contributions in-
serted in the Colonial Literary Journal.
Notice to Correspondents.
The classical verses from P. P. shall be inserted as soon as we
have denuded ourselves of some long-standing engagements to
our poetic correspondents.
“Australian Fables, No. 2,” aud “ Banjee Creek,” will also
receive our early attention .
THE PROPERTIES AND USES OF LIME.
Lime had ever been considered as one of the funda-
mental earths, until Sir Humphry Davy exposed it
to the power of electric heat, when a white metal was
the product, to which was given the name of calcium.
Lime is a substance very familiar to the greater
number of persons, but there are comparatively few
who are acquainted with its extensive usefulness, and
its immense proportion of our soil. One of the most
remarkable characteristics of lime is its attraction for
heat, and its capacity to absorb and retain it. This
is exemplified by the immense disengagement of heat
during the ordinary process of slaking lime used for
mortar. It is a principle in nature that every solid
substance in becoming liquid feels cold, and every
liquid assuming the solid form gives out heat, and we
find the substance it unites with become warm. For the
purpose of mortar lime is moistened to the consistency
of a paste. When the labourer pours water on lime,
a volume of smoke immediately rises, and great heat
is produced—it hisses, swells, bursts, and crumbles
to powder. On observing the lime in this state, no
water is discerned amongst it, for the water is mixed
with the lime, and is no longer a liquid ; it is in a
state of solidity, and it has not yet liquified, or
moistened the lime in any degree. The heat which
kept the water as a liquid is escaped, and was thrown
off in the smoke or vapour which arose on its being
poured on the lime, and is chemically said to have
parted with its caloric of fluidity. Before the water
was mixed with the lime, its heat was latent within
it, but it was not felt to be warm water, neither did
the lime feel warm, but when the water and the lime
are united, the substance is found hot, notwithstanding
there has already escaped much heat with the vapour.
The affinity of lime for water is so great, that it will
absorb 700 times its own weight of water to become
liquid; when it is completely dissolved, it is called
lime water .
Lime is an alkaline earth, and therefore it will
unite with the acids, through the agency of which
we obtain many valuable crystals. Alabaster, all
the different spars, and plaster of Paris, are salts
formed by the combinations of lime and acids. Lime
has a greater attraction for carbonic acid than for
any other—so much so, that if lime water is exposed
to the air, the carbonic acid will be deposited on the
water, uniting with the lime in the form of chalk, or
as it is chemically denominated, a carbonate, while
the water is left free. Lime, or limestone, is found
in all countries. All the varieties of marble and
limestone consist essentially of carbonate of lime.
The purest white marble is called primary limestone,
that is, limestone long deposited, ancient perhaps as
the antediluvian hills, and free from organic remains ;
but the term marble is generally applied to every
limestone finely coloured, and capable of receiving a
polish. All the different appearances of lime, whether
as marble , as limestone , or as chalk , and common
whiting , are alike a crystal, or a salt, produced by
the alkaline properties of lime in combination with
carbonic acid, and are therefore all of them car-
bonates of lime. Lime is reduced to the state of
chalk, or powder, as we see it used for mortar and
other purposes, by burning in a kiln, until the car-
bonic acid and water are entirely separated from it.
As it burns, the ashes are allowed to fall down ; in
this manner it becomes much lighter and more porous,
though it is still sufficiently hard and compact to be
carried from place to place without falling to pieces.
Lime thus deprived of carbonic acid is called quick-
lime, and in this state is used for many domestic
purposes, and very largely in building, as well as in
mortar. Lime is much used in agriculture as a
manure, or rather as a stimulant to vegeration.
The chief lime made in this colony is from shells,
which are burnt between layers of wood, instead of a
kiln, until they are reduced to ashes. The lime thus
made, is in some countries very good, but the abun-
dance of marine salt, which is found in the shells of
these parts, is apt to make the houses that are built with
it very damp in moist weather, so that the water has
been know r n to run down the walls, which cannot but
be unwholesome in an air that is so subject to heavy
dews. This might be remedied by frequently wash-
ing and drying the shells, and using those kind of
woods to burn with them, which afford but little or
no alkaline salt.
Nature produces numerous colours in variegated
forms in marble, arising from the mixture of earths
and other substances, combining with the carbonaceous
structure. Other colours equally pleasing to the eye,
are given by chemical art. Staining marble sa.fine
and delicate operation ; the marble is heated to such
a degree, as to make the liquor to be used boil on its
surface, different kinds of solvents are used to strike
in the colours—either potass, or oil, or white wine,
depending on the nature of the colouring matter to be
inserted. With some colours, the marble must be cold.
The manner of colouring is exceedingly various, and
many persons make a secret of their own peculiar
method.
Another compound of lime, called bleaching powder
or chloride of lime, is prepared by exposing recently
slacked lime in fine powder to chlorine gas ; a room
is filled with this gas, and the lime spread over the
floor, the lime absorbs the gas speedily in large
quantities and they become chemically combined.
Sulphate of lime is another form which is found
abundantly in # nature. Its varieties are gypsum,
alabaster, and plaster of Paris, all exceedingly useful
in statuary of every description.
It is impossible to pass by the numerous and useful
as well as ingenious purposes to which the earthy
materials of our world can be applied, without expe-
riencing an inward adoration of the Producer of all
these marvellous works ; who has given also to man the
capacious mind to work out wonders upon the bases
of creation ; wonders which involve in them not some,
but all the necessaries as w r ell as enjoyments of this
life. How truly are we the offspring of God ! how
close must be the union between the spirit of God,
and the spirit of man. More marvellous than all, the
conviction that man is so often unmindful of his
Almighty inspirer, and, with all reverence be it said,
his wonderful Coadjutor, B.


Original Poetry.
LOLITA.
[AUSTRALIAN SHEPHERD.]
'Tis night! anti o’er the glassy deep
The wakeful stars their vigils keep,
With fairy tapers sparkling bright
Upon the wave—where shadowy night
Sits darkly frowning—like the cloud
The tempest wings—Heaven’s sable shroud.
Fair Nature rests, serene and still,
Upon the deep—on vale and hill! —
There’s not a breath upon the wave
It sleeps as calm as sleep the brave,
Who proudly wave their hand on high,
Entwined with death and victory !
There’s not a whisper ’mid the leaves,
So gently sleeps the seaward breeze!
There’s not a sigh from ’mid the flowers,
Deep slumbering in their roseate bowers!
Reposing on their Lover’s breast,
Within their velvet couch of rest! —
And like to distant echo’s tone,
The ocean’s swell sighs forth its moan;
While faint and low the deep glanced oar
Is heard upon the shell-strewed shore! —
And from the citron groves in bloom,
How passing sweet the mild perfume,
Whose nectared fount the night dew sips
With sparkling eyes and eager lips,
As on the dark and shaded leaves
It pearly gems of crystal weaves—
Bright orient gems the morning’s sun
Glad drinks in joy ere day be done—
More fair, more pure, than ever gem
Encircling monarch’s diadem!
*****
Why sits Lolita in her tower,
In lonesome watch the midnight hour —
Why gazes she out o’er the deep,
W T hen all are hushed in death-like sleep ?
Her hands are clasped upon her brow,
Which ne’er felt sorrow like to now!
Her fingers press the throbbing vein,
Which ebbing, leaves a violet stain,
Like streaks in marble, coldly fair! —
Why sits Lolita weeping there!
And oft with trembling hand she tried
To stay the tears she could not hide—
But, oh, how vain! in vain she strove
To quell that silent speech of love! —
The hectic blush her cheek displays
The passion of her soul betrays ;
And trembling eyelids quivering start
Speak but the anguish of her heart! —
Why joins she not the sportive throng
In festive hall, with lightsome song?
Alas! she pines in sadness lone,
And weeps her youthful lover gone —
For her heart is on that peaceful sea,
With him, whom ne’er again she’ll see!
*****
The sun is up, and in the sky,
With a smile of heavenly brilliancy—
And the azure hue of that summer sky
Is tinged with a deep and mellow dye !
And the fleecy clouds, so brightly fair,
In their silvery sheen are floating there.
The birds are abroad on outstretched wing,
Or poised in air, are caroling; —
And the busy bees, with ceaseless tune,
Rejoice in the warmth of the summer’s noon,
As they drain the sweets from the honey bean,
And the snowy bell of the evergreen! —
Lolita has gone to the shady bower,
Where she last met her lover at twilight hour; —
And in fancy she dreams his step to hear,
And she pauses to list with an anxious ear.
And her heart throbs high, and her cheek is red,
Like the last bright hue when the sun hath fled—
When the wreck of his glory the clouds enfold
In their mantle of brightness, of crimson, and gold !
Like a lily that droops in the passing shower,
She stands with eyes downcast, and thinks on the hour
When in sadness they parted with bitter farewell!
(For none but a lover can ever tell
The anguish that’s centred in fare thee well!)
The rose that then blooming at parting he gave,
Now droops ’neath the tears that cannot save—
The bright tears of sorrow that fast o’erflow
From the fountains of true love and woman’s woe!
* * * * *
Away, upon the raging sea,
On the billow bounding past,
The ocean’s toy flies scudding on
Before the stormy blast!
Beneath her stems the surging wave
Astern—a foaming track ;
There’s not a gleam of hope to light
The sea-tossed wanderer back.
She sinks—she sinks—beneath the deep,
Where man can never tell—
The mountain wave gave him a grave— *
The winds howled forth his knell!
* * * * *
The convent bell doth slowly toll
For a def arted sister’s soul! —
And they whom death did sadly sever,
Again united them for ever !
Above her grave the sisters laid
A willow fair, her tomb to shade ;
But Time, who rules with iron sway,
Effacing all with sure decay,
Has scarcely left a mark to tell
Of her who died in loving well!
SONNET.
[by the same.]
What, selfish all! Good God ! the mother’s love,
When to her yearning heart, ’mid tears of joy,
She clasps her sinless child, her cherub boy,
With thoughts engendered from bright heaven above!
Tell not to him who dares the briny deep,
To pluck the stranger from the engulfing wave,
That selfishness did prompt him thus to save
A fellow-creature from eternal sleep—
Tell not to him whose eyes do fast o’erflow,
With tears of pity at sad tale of woe.
Go from the world, thy conscience then will tell
If thou art right; no reas’ning e’er so well,
Tho’ happily balanced, or by eloquence told,
Can e’er God’s mystery of the mind unfold.
A MOTHER’S GRIEF.
To mark the sufferings of the babe
That cannot speak its woes;
To see the infant tears gusli forth,
Yet know not why they flow;
To meet the meek uplifted eye,
That fain would ask relief,
Yet can but tell of agony —
This is a mother’s grief.
Thro’ dreary day and darker night,
To trace the march of death;
To hear the faint and frequent sigh,
The quick and shorten’d breath ;
To watch the last dread strife draw near,
And pray that struggle brief,
Though all is ended with its close —
This is a mother’s grief.
To see in one short hour decay’d
The hope of future years ;
To feel how vain a father’s prayers,
How vain a mother’s tears;
To think the cold grave now must close
O’er what was once the chief
Of all the treasur’d joys of earth —
This is a mother’s grief.
Yet when the first wild throb is past,
Of anguish and despair,
To lift the eye of faith to heaven,
And think —my child is there !
This best can dry the gushing tear, fc
This yields the heart relief,
Until the Christian’s pious hope . ~
O’ercomes a mother’s grief! [ Communicated .J


CORRESPONDENCE.
To the Editor of the Colonial Literary Journal.
Sir— ln my former letter I attempted to show that selfishness
is not a necessary feature in the mental constitution of man,
and that he is in the habit of performing acts of charity and
kindness, from the simple exercise of those feelings of bene-
volence with which his Maker has endowed him.
I presume even the writer of “ Reward” will admit, that be-
nevolence did exist, and that benevolent acts were performed,
before those pleasurable sensations on which he calculates, and
which form the basis of his acts of generosity, could have been
called into existence, and consequently before selfishness could
have calculated upon their reproduction ; such being the case,
it is required to be shown when, and by what agency this
natural order of things has been inverted, and how it is that
what was the effect, has now become the cause.
The writer of “Reward” says, in support of his principle,
“ Nor does the act lose any of its usefulness in consequence of
having been instigated by a selfish spirit, or by the hope of
reward, which is the same thing, &c.” While I fully agree
with the writer that the motives which excite to an action, in
no way interfere with the physical effects of that action, 1 do
contend that it is from the motive alone its moral character is
to be determined. A sum of money, or a supply of food, will
have the effect of relieving the wants of a necessitous person,
whether bestowed from a benevolent or selfish motive, and as
effectually in the one case as the other, but the moral aspect
of the act will be widely different, and the moral influence
which it will exert, supposing its motives can be read, will
differ as widely as the principles which prompted to its per-
formance—for instance, gratitude to a benefactor is a natural
impulse of the mind ; but gratitude supposes the benefactor
to have acted on benevolent and self denying principles, or
from feelings of preference or love: once destroy this idea,
and gratitude ceases. There can be no gratitude towards a
man whose acts of liberality are known to proceed from a desire
to gratify his own selfish feelings, who confers a benefit, only
that it may afford him pleasurable sensations—who performs
benevolent acts, “having an eye to the reward he shall receive
in his consciousness of having performed that which would be
considered praiseworthy by those around him.”
How applicable the words of the poet to such a state of
things.
“And what is friendship but a name,
A charm that lulls to sleep,
A dream that follows wealth or fame
And leaves the wretch to weep.
And love is still an emptier sound,
The modern fair one’s jest;
On earth unseen, or only found
To warm the Turtle’s nest.”
One more extract, and I have done with “Reward.”
“To suppose” says the writer, “that men would perform
actions by which they suffer pecuniary loss, without any real
or imaginary benefit accruing to themselves from them, is to
suppose that which the experience of every hour flatly contra-
dicts.” If this passage is to be taken as a transcript of the
writer’s own mind, we may suppose him applied to by some
unhappy sufferer who has been by misfortune reduced to a
state of extreme poverty and distress ; to relieve that distress
would subject him to pecuniary loss, the matter therefore with
him would resolve itself into some such question as this, “ will
the pleasurable sensations which I shall obtain by relieving
this person’s necessities, be such as I may consider an equi-
valent for the amount of pecuniary loss which I shall thereby
sustain ?” and he would of course be guided in his deci-
sion, by the balance of profit or loss which such a calculation
would show. But, Sir, I cannot for a moment entertain such
thoughts of him, nor do I believe him to be such a concen-
tration of selfishness, as that he cannot feel for the sufferings
of his fellow men, or that those sufferings are not sufficient in
themselves, and apart from any expectation of reward, to call
into active exercise the benevolent feelings of his own heart,
and to induce him to extend the hand of charity on behalf of
afflicted and suffering humanity.—l am, Sir, &c.,
AMICUS.
The Parramatta Debating Society.—lt may not be
S era t M<v n °! ?n A that a societ y under the above name is
held at M Kay s Australian Arms, in Parramatta. The nights
of meeting are every Thursday, and questions of local and
general interest to the colony are discussed. Attached to the
Kf a S ryand elocution class, and the admission
tee is a mere trifle.
ENGLISH EXTRACTS.
[From the Herald. ]
The affairs of Tahiti continued to attract the attention of the
public, but nothing of importance had transpired ; the French
waiting until they received from their own officers an official
account of the seizure and expulsion, from the island, of Mr.
Pritchard.
The French bad at length commenced active operations
against Morocco, the fleet under the Prince De Joinville having
bombarded Tangiers ; and it was understood that all the forts
on the coast would be bombarded in succession, if the Emperor
did not comply with the demands of the French.
Mahomet Ali, the Pacha of Egypt, had vacated his govern-
ment, intending to spend the remainder of his days at Mecca
in the performance of his religious duties. His son Ibrahim
Pacha had according to treaties entered into between Turkey
and the European powers, succeeded to the Pashalik.
There appears to be a constant succession of Royal visitors
at the Court of St. James’; as soon as the King of Saxony left
England, Prince William of Prussia arrived, and was being
feted in the usual manner. The King of the French was
expected to arrive in England on a visit to the Queen, about
September 15.
The East India Company gave a grand dinner to Generals
Nott and Sale upon their arrival in England.
The House of Lords stood adjourned to September 2nd,
(when it was expected judgment would be given in O’Connell’s
case,) and the House of Commons to September sth.
The Select Committees of both Houses had brought up the
report of their enquiry into the practice of opening letters at
the Post Office. It appears that for the last three centuries
the practice has been followed, about six warrants a year
having been issued. The Committee report without making
any recommendation.
COMMERCIAL REVIEW.
The markets generally are still characterized by inactivity
which has prevailed for some time past, the sales effected
during the week have been limited in amount, and restricted
almost entirely to the hammer to supply immediate wants.
Wool. —The prospects of this market continue very cheer-
ing, late advices from England, ex Hamlet, are very satisfactory,
and exhibit an upward tendency. The prices realized are very
encouraging to the growers.
Wheat. —Several samples of new wheat of superior quality
have been offered for sale during the week, the Millers are
unwilling to purchase until its arrival in town, when 3s. per
bushel may be expected.
Flour. —The price of this article continues very low, several
purchases have been made for exportation.
Tea.—This market continues without alteration in price,
the demand is only partial, and the sales effected have been
few and unimportant.
Rice. —The stock on hand is very limited, holders will not
accept less than 28s. per bag, for Patna, the only quality in
the market.
Oilman’s Stores. —The prices realised by public auction,
prove the scarcity and demand existing.
Wines. —From the small stock of all descriptions, the prices
are looking up and much higher rates may be expected.
In other articles comment is unnecessary.
B. S. LLOYD
Commission Agent, Bridge-street.
December 11 tli, 1841.
33irrfjs.
On the 2nd instant, at Claremont, the lady of Robert Dal-
hunty, Esq., of a son.
On the sth instant, at Lower George-street, Mrs. Frederick
Mackellar, of a son.
Jttarrtages.
On the 3rd instant, at St. James’s Church, by the Rev. W.
H, Walsh, Mr. George Merret, to Matilda Margaret Austin,
youngest daughter of the late Lieut. T. H. Edwards of
Woolloomooloo.
On the 3rd instant, at Liverpool, by the Rev. John DufFus,
M.A., Christophilus Garstin, Esq., H.M. 58th Regiment,
eldest son of the Rev. C. Garstin, of Drumbalerony, County
Down, to Ellis, eldest daughter of the late Andrew Allan,
Esq., of Liverpool, and grand-niece to General Sir Henry
Bayly, G.C.H.


Sapping Intelligence.
ARRIVALS.
December 7. —The steamer Shamrock, 200 tons, Captain
Gilmore, from Port Phillip the 30th ultimo, Launceston the
4th, and Boyd Town, Twofold Bay, the 6th instant.
December B.—The steamer Maitland, , 103 tons, Captain
Parsons, from Port Macquarie the 7th instant.
December B.—The steamer Sovereign, 119 tons, Captain
Cape, from Moreton Bay the 6th instant,
December B.—The brig Calypso, 105 tons, Captain Harold,
from Launceston the 30th ultimo.
December 9.—The steamer James Watt, 141 tons, Captain
Taggart, from Hobart Town the 4th, and Boyd Town the Bth
instant.
December B.—The brig Dorset, 82 tons, Captain Walsh,
from Port Adelaide the 25th ultimo.
December 10.—The barque Hamlet, 420 tons, Captain
Wilson, from the Downs 18th, and Portsmouth 21st August.
December 10. —The brig William, 149 tons, Captain Thom,
from Launceston the 3rd instant.
December 10. The brig Martha, 121 tons, Capt. Boustead,
from Launceston the Ist instant.
DEPARTURES.
December s.—The schooner Wave, Captain Birkenshaw, for
Port Phillip.
December 6.—The brig Louisa, Captain Tucker, for Hobart
Town.
December B.—The schooner Martha and Elizabeth, Captain
Devlin, for Port Phillip.
December 10.—The schooner Countess of Wilton, Captain
Bowles, for Auckland, Russell, and Tahiti, with sundries.
December 10.—The steamer Sovereign, Captain Cape, for
Moreton Bay.
JUST PUBLISHED, PRICE THREE-PENCE,
And to be had at the Queen’s Printing Office, 91, York-
street, (three doors south from King-street), at Mr. Jones’s
Bookseller, Brickfield Hill, and of the various Vendors
throughout the Colony,
WALL’S NEW SOUTH WALES ALMANAC,
for 1845.
Contents. —Corrected ‘Signals used at Port Jackson—
Eclipses of the S in and Moon visible in Australia—Governors
of New South Wales from the establishment of the Colony,
and duration of their Government —Police Office and Market
Fees, Rules, Regulations, &c. —Calendar containing the Moon’s
age—rising and settingof the Sun, holidays, remarkable events,
Sic. —Table shewing the different Country Post Towns,
distances from Sydney, and rates of Postage and Communi-
cation —Law Intelligence—Members of the City Council—
Gardener’s Tal le, &c., &c., &c.
KICTG STREET FURNITURE WAREHOUSE.
JHILL begs to call the attention of the public to his
. extensive stock of Furniture, the whole of which has
been manufactured under his personal superintendence, and
is of the best materials and workmanship
In purchasing at the Establishment of J. H., parties can
depend on being supplied with decent and durable Articles,
at THE LOWEST PRICES IN THE CITY.
I IMPORTANT.
ALL sorts of Brass Castings supplied at Is. per pound.
Cash ; if booked Is. 3d. per pound. Patterns, if made,
charged for.
C. M. CRTGHTON,
Kent and Clarence Streets.
WANTED, by a respectable Young Man, who is well
experienced in keeping accounts, a Situation as clerk
or storekeeper. He is also capable of teaching a family of
children, or country school, in Reading, Writing, Arithmetic
English Grammar, Book keeping, Geometry, Algebra, &c
During his time in the Colony he can produce testimonials of
character to show that he has behaved himself as a trustworthy
servant to his employers.
Any Gentleman requiring a Man to fulfil either of the above
situations, will please to apply at the Office of J. H. Plunkett,
Esq., Attorney-General, Macquarie-street.
USTANTED a Situation as Gardener, in a garden in the
\V vicinity of Sydney, by a professed and experienced
Jardener. Apply at this Office.
TO PEUSONS AFTLICTED WITH DEAFNESS.
ON SALE, at J. J. COHEN’S, Silversmith, &c., Temple of
Fashion, 479, George-street, 40 per cent, under invoice
price, a few very neat Patent Elastic Voice Conductors, by
which the slightest sound may be distinctly heard.
&5T An early call will be to the advantage of those requir-
ing them.
COLONIAL WINE.
THE undersigned has pleasure in announcing to his con-
nexion, and the Australian public, that he is now prepared
to supply them with the
• ' PURE CAMDEN WINE,
from the well known Vineyard of Messrs. James and William
Macarthur.
This being the first announcement for sale of this valuable
produce of Australia, the advertiser would call attention to the
fact, that it is only as the inhabitants of this colony turn their
attention to the produce of their own country, to the exclusion
of foreign importation, that they can ever successfully avoid
the misery and ruin too long consequent on the opposite
course. That wine will eventually form an important article
of export from these shores, no doubt can be entertained; nor
is it to be overlooked, that its being a wine-growing country,
will, whatever may be advanced to the contrary, tend to our
advancement in a moral, social, and political view.
The wine is warranted the pure juice of the grape, and can
be had at 15s. per dozen, or by the cask at the rate of 6s. per
imperial gallon. The advertiser with confidence looks to the
public for support, and in conclusion requests the wavering to
call and judge for themselves.
ROBERT PORTER.
City Tea Warehouse, 424, George-street.
IN THE SUPREME! COURT.
Sheriffs Office, Sydney,
December 7, 1844.
CARMICHAEL V. KING.
ON FRIDAY, the 13th instant, at noon, at the London
Tavern, Sydney, the Sheriff will cause to be sold, all the
right, title, interest, and estate, of the above defendant, in
and to
All that piece or parcel of land, containing about six acres,
two roods, and six perches, in the district of Liberty Plains,
on the Liverpool road, iiv-the colony of New South Wales,
bounded on the north by Liverpool road, east by T. H.
James, south by land next described, west by other land of
T. H. James;
Also, about twelve acres, three roods, and eight perches,
bounded north by the above and other land lately belonging
to F. Stephen, east by A. Polack, south by new road to
George’s River through Canterbury Estate to Iredale’s, west
by Hughes and Hosking;
Unless this execution is previously satisfied.
CORNELIUS PROUT,
Under Sheriff.
Colonial Eiterary Journal.
Collector for Sydney Mr. Francis Wye.
Our Subscribers are requested to observe that the Quarterly Sub-
scription to the Journal is made payable in advance. The
present heavy expenses require this. Those therefore who have
omitted to pay their last quarter's subscription , together with the
present one in advance,, are requested to forward the same to the
nearest Agent at their earliest convenience.
Agents for this Journal.
Sydney, Mr. W. Jones, Circulating Library, Brickfield-hill.
, Parramatta Mr. Hugh Taylor.
Windsor Mr. Walker.
Bathurst Mr. Tress.
West Maitland Mr. Galloway.*
Camden, Campbelltown, Penrith, and
Liverpool Mr. C. Lester.
Gunning Mr. Hawthorne.
