

COLONIAL LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
“ NON TUA TE MOVEANT, SE D PUBLICA VOTA.”
Vol. 11. No. 34.]
SYDNEY, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1845.
[Price 4d,
CONTENTMENT.
“ Content can only be purchased by a virtuous life.”
| Moral Maxim.
To preserve contentment under all circumstances,
and in every variety of fortune, is the attribute of
one who must be influenced differently from those
who constitute the great mass of society ; and he
must he a shallow observer of human who has
not been able to discover that such a frame and tem-
per of spirit is very seldom realized. Perhaps, of all
the infirmities and failings o^ human nature, there is
not one which stands out so prominently to the view
of the observer of life and pumndrs as discontent. It
has furnished one of the most frequent and favourite
themes of the satirist both in ancient and modern
times. And it is only repeating a sentiment of
classic antiquity, to say, that the most hopeless mis-
sion on which an individual toukT be sent would be
to find out a man in all respects contented with his
lot in life. Did he visit the abodes of want and
obscurity, he would not perhaps be surprised at its
absence. The various privations and hardships inci-
dent to the humble walks of life might, perhaps, natur-
ally lead him to expect such a result. But he might!
indulge the hope, that as he emerged from this low and
depressed condition, into the sphere of comfort and!
competency, the influence of discontent w'ouldbe pro-
portionably lessened. Such, however is not the case,
On the contrary, it would seem to be on the increase. !
New sources of disquietude have opened. New cares,
anxieties, and troubles have arisen. He w’ould still
find men comparing their condition in life with that of
those above them. And as long as others are in the
advance of them in the race of life, the fever of emu-
lation and rivalry is kept alive and fed. So that where
every want is provided for, where there is enough
and to spare, there is still the inward repining at the
more brilliant fortune of an envied rival. The heart
of man cannot be at rest. It fixes eagerly upon the
attainment of some one object, and till that is gained,
all other blessings are ungratefully forgotten. And
thus it is that we find upon the sunny heights of pros-
perity,. and amidst the crimson, the gold, and the
splendid mansion, and all that can seemingly minister
to human enjoyment— we find, in the midst of all
ihis, the brow furrowed with deeper lines, and the
bosom heaved with deeper sighs, than even amidst
the lowest and most depressed valleys of adversity.
We may safely assert, then, that it is not in the
power of any individual to name the lot, the attain-
ment of which would make him perfectly happy, and
with nothing more to wish for. Every man, of
course, forms to himself an ideal picture of earthly
bliss, the realizing of which, he imagines would be the
completion of his happiness ; but experience proves
such an imagination to be, in the cases even of the
most sagacious, as idle as a schoolboy’s day-dream.
When the object is attained, the individual finds him-
self as far removed as ever from the desired end. In
fact, there is an aching void in every breast; and
whether we note those of our fellow-creatures whose
sanguine hopes in life have been disappointed,
whose plans of power, or of opulence, have been
defeated ; or those who are impatient of obscurity,
who fancy they possess gifts which should qualify
them for other and better situations than those they
hold, or those who think they have mistaken their
profession, or whose talents and exertions have not
been rewarded as they deserve, —the general preva-
lence of discontent is indeed striking ; and upon a
calm and deliberate view of it, we cannot but stand
amazed at the fertility of the human mind in creat-
ing for itself sources of discontent, or, in short, at its
proficiency in the art of self-torment.
There are, indeed, instances which are occasionally
quoted as exceptions apparently to this general rule.
Our admiration is often challenged for men who seem
to be almost raised above the force or influence of ex-
ternal circumstances ; who preserve an equilibrium of
mind in all the vicissitudes of fortune, and, in reverses
the most sudden and unforeseen, never give vent to
the murmur of complaint. In regard to such cases,
we shall only say, to what degree the heart may be
torn with anguish, while pride forbids any expression
of it, it is not easy to determine. There are persons
apparently possessed of much outward cheerful-
ness, owing to their being actively engaged in some
employment, and all 4 engrossed in a temporary ex-
citement arising from outward as the
circumstance of being enlisted in a good cause; the
sympathy and approbation of those who are looked up
to and respected ; the very alacrity of spirits flowing as
a natural consequence from active exertion, and from
various other causes. There are, also, instances, no
doubt, of those who, while in the possession of the
object of their fondest hopes, and when they have
realized their best desires, do feel an inward content-
ment ; but their tenure of it is dependent upon the
possession of the cherished idol ; and an unforeseen
calamity, a stroke of adverse fortune, may dash to
pieces the fabric of their happiness. And thus the
man who, while in possession of the idolized object,
whatever it may be, seems to be shut up in measure


less content, is, on its removal, plunged into inconso-
lable misery.
A contented spirit, therefore, may he safely pro-
nounced a blessing not to be attained by the thought-
less worldling. It is reserved for one who does not
forget that, while his mortal nature may indeed be
overwhelmed with sorrows and privations, he is still
possessed of that immortal part, that latent spark of
divinity, which can never be satisfied with all the
joys this world can offer; —it is reserved for him to
realize the blessing of contentment in all its perfec-
tion : and whether his lot be dark or bright, elevated
or depressed, to preserve a spirit ever calm, serene
and cheerful. This marked distinction may, without
doubt, mainly be attributed to the different views
and sentiments entertained by the practical Christian.
The light in which he regards the world differs ma-
terially from that in which it is viewed by others.
His life he views as a scene of moral discipline,
intended to fit him for another and higher stage of
existence. And this conviction greatly serves to
reduce within proper dimensions the real value
and importance of earthly interests. The interests
of life, its riches, honours, pleasures, its cares and
rivalries, appear of so paltry a nature to him, that
he regards them with an indifference which is quite
inconceivable to the man who follows in the track
of the world. And, in truth, the man who can
realise a near eternity, an unseen world, must, in the
nature of things, acquire, from the circumstances, a
dignity of mind, and an independence upon earthly
things, to which no other can aspire. He may be
inconvenienced by them ; but it is only as the tra-
veller on his Avay to a happy home is inconvenienced
by the toils and privations of his journey. He may
even seem to feel acutely the trials of life ; but his
grief can never merge him, as it does the worldling,
into gloomy discontent or sullen misanthropy.
An additional motive for contentment to the con-
siderate Christian is, his strong persuasion and trust
in an over-ruling Providence. He from the heart
believes, what some deny, and what so many profess
to believe, but do not —the particular providence of
God. The fickle power of chance holds no place in
his creed. So that in whatever situation he may be
placed, he learns therewith to be content; and there-
fore the thousand daily benefits which are received as
a matter of course by others, are noted down by him
for grateful remembrance. If he is blessed with the
enjoyment of health, of reason, of competence, of
friends and relatives ; the comforts of domestic life—
the social circle, and the numberless sources of plea-
sure and recreation, they are all found inscribed in
terms of the deepest gratitude. He, unlike the heart-
less sensualist, who turns from such blessings as
tasteless and insipid, and flies to the haunts of vicious
excess for stimulants to minister to his vitiated taste —
he can derive from the temperate use of God’s creatures
an enjoyment a thousand times richer than that which
is to be found by the votaries of sinful pleasure in
any of their pursuits.
It is thus that contentment may in reality be found.
He who feels the humblest lot in which he can be
placed to be better than he deserves, has that within
him which must check the murmurs of discontent,
(be his lot what it may,) and which must therefore
make him content with that which Providence has
allotted him. Calm, cheerful and serene —what, com-
pared to the peaceful satisfaction of the virtuous
Christian, is the pretended philosophy of the gloomy
Cynic, or the proud Stoic? More indifferent to the
world than the former pretended to he—more raised
above the power of outward circumstances than the
latter ever boasted of, he has a better, because a
purer relish for all that is best in enjoyment in this
sublunary scene; while his fondest hopes and wishes
are bended towards that land where universal con-
tentment reigns in truth, more pure than ever hope
dared seek for, or fancy picture.
Biography.
SIR DAVID WILKIE.
[concluded.]
Wilkie’s next journey was to Scotland in 1817. After re
newing his old associations in Edinburgh, he visited Glasgow,
and, accompanied for a part of the way by Dr. Chalmers, and
a Quakeress , (in a return chaise) proceeded to the Isle of
Bute, Inverary, and finally to Abbotsford, taking his native
place in his way. Although his stay in Cupar was short, his
presence amongst his old friends was commemorated by a
public breakfast, which was attended by the principal gentry
of the district. While staying at Abbotsford with Sir Walter
Scott, he was introduced to the Ettrick Shepherd by Laidlaw
the poet and manager of Sir Walter’s estate. Here is an ac-
count of the meeting:—“The cottage(says Laidlaw) which
Hogg at that time inhabited had been the but and ben of the
former tenant, and he dwelt in the kitchen, for it was the pre-
ferable part; but the kitchen was large and roomy, and better
lighted than such abodes used to be then, and was, moreover,
wonderfully clean. The kettle was hanging over a cheerful
peat-fire, and soon began to simmer; and James, then a
bachelor, despatched a shepherdess to borrow some loaf-bread,
to which she added some kneaded cake. I felt pleased at the
comfort the poet, as he was commonly called, had around
him; and having several times accompanied Wilkie among
the cottao-es of Gattonside and Darnick in search of the pic -
turesque, I began to point out what I thought might amuse him
while Hogg busied himself preparing breakfast. The poet on
this began to look and listen. 1 had not introduced Wilkie
as an artist; and it is probable he had taken him, as he did a
great poet, for a horse-couper. He, however, turned sud-
denly to me, ‘ Laidlaw ! this is no the great Mr. Wilkie V 1 It’s
just the great Mr. Wilkie, Hogg,’ I replied, ‘Mr. Wilkie,’
exclaimed the shepherd, seizing him by the hand, ‘ I cannot
tell how proud I am to see you in my house, and how glad I
am to see you are so young a man.’ ” When this expression
was repeated to Sir Walter, he exclaimed, ‘ The fellow ! it was
the finest compliment ever paid to man”
On returning to London, he found that the civic authorities
of Gupar had forwarded him the freedom of the burgh; an
honour which had been neglected, or which there was not
sufficient time to confer when Wilkie was on the spot. His
health was slowly re-established, and he worked at various pic-
tures with his usual industry and zeal up to the end of 1819.
In this year, Wilkie received a commission from the King of
Bavaria, and the subject chosen was, The reading of a
Will.” The picture was exhibited in 1820 at the Royal Aca-
demy, and from the too great admiration which it excited,
cost the painter some embarrassment. His majesty, George
IV., took so great a fancy to it, that he commissioned Sir
Thomas Lawrence to ask Wilkie whether he might have the
picture, and whether a duplicate of it could not be sent to the
King of Bavaria ? This, of course, was impossible, and the
affair assumed a diplomatic aspect; the official pens of the
ambassadors to both courts were set in motion; but happily
for the peace of the nation, the matter finished amicably.


George IV., put up with his disappointment, and the King of
Bavaria handsomely sent Wilkie one hundred pounds more
than the price originally agreed upon for the picture.
In 1822, Wilkie accompanied George IV., on his visit to
Edinburgh. From this resulted a royal commission for a
view of the king entering Holyrood —a picture of pomp and
circumstance, which did not add much to the painter’s fame.
Next year his majesty’s limner for Scotland, Sir Henry Rea-
burn, died, and Wilkie was appointed to the office. By 1827,
Wilkie’s health had suffered alarmingly from a nervous affec-
tion of the brain, partly brought on by close application to
his easel, and partly by misfortunes of a serious character,
thus summed up in a letter from Sir Robert Liston to a
mutual friend : —“ A young gentleman, betrothed to his sister,
and on the point of being married, died in his house ; soon
after, his mother, who resided in his house, also died; a
brother died, nearly at the same time, in the East Indies;
another brother came home to him from Canada, afflicted
with a fatal distemper, and likewise died ; a younger brother,
established in commercial business in London, with the most
■1 Utering4)rospects, was affected by the crisis which took place
two years ago, and became insolvent. He himself remains
liable to the Board of Ordnance for the amount of a security
bond of one thousand pounds, in consequence of a deficiency
in his brother’s accounts in Canada, which occurred during
his last illness ; while he has lost, by the failure of Hurst and
Robinson, the sum of seventeen hundred pounds, contracted
to be paid to him for engravings of his pictures.” To lessen
the weight of these severe trials, Wilkie made another jour-
ney to the continent, visiting Rome and various other seats of
Italian art, Germany, and Spain.
After long absence from England, Wilkie returned. He
had not been idle abroad, for the exhibition of 1829, con
tained several pictures from his hand. These created some
surprise ; for it was observed that the painter had completely
changed not only the style of his subjects, but his manner of
painting. His fame hitherto rested upon delineations of
scenes in humble life, executed with untiring carefulness of
detail, down to the most minute lineament; but the results of
his residence in other lands were mostly sketches rather than
pictnres, of the scenes and characters he had observed in his
travels. It is intimated by Mr. Cunningham, that these
changes arose from a wish to reap larger pecuniary rewards
than he had hitherto received. The length of time Wilkie de-
voted to each of his former pictures, may be estimated by the
really Flemish patience with which lie touched and retouched
their least important parts. If such a desire really originated
the change, it seems to have been satisfied. Three of the
Spanish scenes he now exhibited, found a purchaser in George
IV., for two thousand guineas.
On the death of Sir Thomas Lawrence, in 1830, Wilkie
became a candidate for the office of president of the Royal
Academy; but was disappointed. From this period no
event more important than visits to various parts of England
and to Ireland took place in Wilkie’s life, till the loth June
1838, when the painter had the honour of knighthood con-
ferred upon him by William IV. On the accession of Queen
Victoria, Wilkie was commanded to paint her majesty’s first
portrait. In 1839, he revisited the scenes of his nativity and
early career.
In the autumn of 1840, Wilkie set out suddenly on a
journey to the East. He went by way of the Hague, Co-
logne, Munich, and Vienna, to Constantinople. Here he had
the honour of painting, from the life, two portraits of the
Sultan of Turkey—one for his highness himself, and one for
her majesty of England ; the war in Syria having detained him
at Pera (the Frank quarter of the Turkish capital) till the
close of the year ; but in February 1841, the roads were clear,
and Wilkie started for Jerusalem, taking Smyrna, Beyrout,
and Jaffa, in his way. Having satisfied his curiosity bv seeing
all that is interesting in the Holy Land, he turned'his face
homeward, and reached Alexandria in May 1841. Here the
painter was detained to make a portrait of the renowned
pacha of Egypt, Mahommed Ali, which he accomplished in
three long sittings.
During the latter part of Sir David’s wanderings, his health
which even from the beginning of his prosperous career
iiad never been continuously good—suffered occasionally ; but
nothing evinced itself to alarm his friend and travelling com-
panion Mr. Woodburn. They took a passage at Alexandria in
the Oriental steam-ship for England, and arrived at Malta, with
nothing to foreshadow the closing scene, except occasional
complaints from Sir David of internal ailments, that were
temporarily removed by the surgeon of the ship. That officer
(Mr. William Getty) gives the following statement, which is
the more graphic for its briefness :
“ Sir David Wilkie, aged fifty-six years, and apparently
greatly impaired in constitution, came on board at Alexandria.
On the voyage to Malta, he suffered occasionally from affec-
tions of the stomach, but took no medicine, and appeared and
expressed himself as having improved in his general health
on the voyage. Whilst at Malta, he indulged imprudently in
drinking iced lemonade, and in eating fruit, and complained
afterwards of uneasiness at stomach, with deranged bowels ;
by the aid of an emetic and aperient medicine, he gradually
began to get rid of these ailments ; was yesterday evening on
deck, and appeared to have almost quite shaken off his illness.
On going to his cabin this morning, (Ist June 1841) to pay
him my usual visit, I found him incoherent in his manner of
expressing himself; he became shortly afterwards nearly co-
matose ; apprehended imperfectly what was said to him, and
oould not give distinct answers to questions put to him ; the
pulse was rapid, indistinct, and easily compressible ; the
breathing stertorous ; the eyes suffused, and apparently insen-
sible to strong light; a blister was applied to the nape of the
neck ; diffusible stimuli was administered, but without relief.
In this state he continued, but gradually sinking, till about
eleven o’clock, when he expired without a struggle.”
The captain of the vessel immediately put back to ask per-
mission to land the body, which was refused. We learn, there-
fore, from the log-book of the Oriental, that at half-past eight
in the evening, in latitude 36. 20., and longitude 6. 42., the
captain “stopped engines, and committed to the deep the body
of Sir David Wilkie. Burial service performed by the Rev
James Vaughan, rector of Wroxhall, near Bath.”
Sir David Wilkie, an industrious and careful man, died rich,
in spite of the pecuniary losses and burdens he had sustained.
It appears, by a list appended to Mr. Cunningham’s work, that
from 1803 to 1841, he painted 153 pictures (a great many of
them portraits), his gross receipts for which amounted to
nearly £lO,OOO. Several were sold after his demise, and pro-,
duced ,£lBOO more. Of his reputation it would be useless to
speak, for that is too extensive to need anything but mere allu-
sion. It is chiefly founded upon his truthful delineations of
Scottish manners, especially those of humble life; though,
apart from these subjects, his “ Letter of Introduction,”
“ Chelsea Pensioners reading the Gazette of the Battle of
Waterloo,” and his “ Sir David Baird discovering the body of
' Tippoo Saib,” are masterpieces of art sufficiently beautiful
and meritorious to form the foundation of a great name. A
statue is in progress to the memory of Sir David Wilkie, from
the chisel of Mr. Jacobs, which is to be placed in the inner
hall of the National Gallery.— Chambers' Journal.
\
ON THE PARTICLE “BUT.”
Horne Tooke, in his “ Diversions of Purley,”
etymologises this word as be out; as if, in the sentence,
“ I would do it, but I cannot,” it means, “ I would
doit, be out (or, put out) of the way this fact, that I
cannot.’ Be this as it may, there is not a more dis-
appointing, contradicting, chilling, vexatious, tanta-
lising word in our language ; as a few instances will
show.
1. A. B. is generous, prompt, and even kind, in
doing a favor; lut, he reminds jou of it, and re-
proaches you for it, on every, even the slightest pro-
vocation.
2. C. D. writes, to an applicant for a loan, “1 shall
at all times, be happy to oblige you with a loan ; but-,
I have not a single shilling in the house.”
3. E. F. is clever, and witty, and brilliant; but ,
he is conceited, and sarcastic, and proud.
4. “ Naaman was a great man, and honourable: he
w'as also a mighty man in valour; but, he was a
leper.”
The result of some observation skew's, that
Every “ And” has its "But.”


INORDINATE EXPECTATIONS IN LIFE.
S IR EGERTON BRYDGES
“ See bow all around them wait
The ministers of human fate,
And black Misfortune’s baleful train !
Ah ! shew them where in ambush stand,
To seize their prey, the murderous band !
Ah, tell them they are men!”
Gray.
Perhaps there is no rule in the art of life more con-
ducive to happiness than not to form inordinate expec-
tations. There is but little in what is called the
world, to gratify a poetic imagination, and to realise
the flattering pictures of Hope. In his happier hours
of solitude th& inexperienced visionary is too apt to
believe that mankind are indeed his brethren ; that in
crowded assemblies he will meet with sympathy ; and
that, amid the “ hum and shock of men,” he will feel
himself moving pleasantly in a congenial sphere of
comfort, light, and elegance. Alas, how must he be
disappointed! Amid the great and the little vulgar,
the tribes that “have the body without the mind,”
he will feel himself equally a prey to disgust, indig-
nation, and uncontrollable irritability; till, unless he
has fortitude to resist the cruel impressions left by
the spectre forms of dull reality ; unless he has forti-
tude to withstand the innumerable difficulties, the
“ phials of wrath,” the inexhaustible springs of misery,
that assail him from evtry quarter, he must inevitably
sink into insanity and incurable despair.
The gift of superior sensibility and taste almost
always implies the curse of superior misery. Their
possessor is alone in the world ; or rather he is far
worse than alone. Nothing is more injurious to the
mind than anything approaching to, or resembling
intimacy, or friendship, with an uncongenial character;
and by what but uncongenial characters can such an
individual be surrounded ?
It is only when sufficient good fortune and sufficient
stamina of resistance and opposition enable him to
break liis fetters in sunder, to frame for himself a
sphere of his own, full of light and elegance, that the
bard’s is indeed a happy lot.
While I write, the castled cliffs, the aerial towers
of this romantic city, [Edinburgh,] are seen “like a
scene of enchantment,” enveloped in the white mists
and tinged with the purple rays of a wintry morning.
It is indeed a scene of enchantment! But oh, when
the eye turns from the sublime scene»y of nature to
the crowded pavement, to countenances furrowed with
base and ignoble passions, stamped with the linea-
• ments of meanness and vice, or to visages round and
sleek and jolly, on which the eye searches in vain for
a trace of sensibility, are we not tempted to exclaim,
“ where is the mind that must enable such inhabitants
to reflect its own light on the scenery?” The very
atmosphere in which so many uncongenial characters
exist is polluted and infectious. A new sphere must
be sought for; one’s own independent energies must
be fostered, or the consequences must be inevitable
destruction, or a gradual lapse into the same state of
apathy and contented stupidity with which ordinary
characters continue to move in their own narrow circle.
But, imagine a youth of powerful fancy and inor-
dinate sensibility ; such a one, for example, as the
hero of Mr. Crabbe’s admirable tale, “ the Patron
or rather a character such as Lord Byron probably
once was, when in early years he trod the wild heaths
of Lochinvar, —imagine him framingin solitude dreams
of happiness and distinction, and brilliance and fasci-
nation ; imagine such a one for the first time brought
out of the regions of fairy land into those of dismal
reality ; imagine him for the first time listening to a
college lecture, or making a maiden speech at the bar,
and what must be his agony of disappointment and
despair.
Life is a theatre of arduous exertion and strenuous
contention, and one of the best rules for obtaining
happiness is , to avoid forming inordinate expectations.
ELIAS WILSON.
[a SKETCH :
BY ALLAN CUNNINGHAM.
On a summer morning, in the year of grace 1676, a
man was seen making his way towards a lonely cot-
tage in the vale of Dalveen, at the head of Nithsdale :
a glimpse, indeed, of the traveller could only now
and then be obtained, for he seemed desirous of con-
cealment, and his presence was chiefly indicated by
the rustling of the bushes of hazel and of holly,
among which he forced his way, or by the startled
birds —for the sun had not yet wholly risen, and the
lark had but newly ascended with his song. He
passed a small stream, and coming to the door of a
cottage, by the side of which a cheese-press was
standing dripping with new whey,- cried, “ Marion,
Marion !”—the door was quickly opened, and a
young woman threw herself into his bosom, saying,
“ Elias! bless thee—bless thee!”—“ And bless thee
too!” said he, returning his wife’s embrace : “ but
this, my love, is no time for vain and worldly affec-
tions. Put on thy mantle, take thy little one in thy
arms, and follow r me. I have escaped almost alone,
from a bloody field ; and here we may no more
abide:” She went into the cottage and returned
with a child of six months old or so in her arm, milk
in a flask, with some bread and honey, and said,
u Elias, I am ready : but let us unloose the cow and
turn her to the pasture, and open the door of the
fold, so that the sheep may go to the hills, —for they
are God’s creatures, and must not perish.” And he
said, “ Surely : for so it is written.” And he did as
she spake, and then left the cottage, accompanied by
his wife and child.
Now Elias and his wife were both young, and
this was the second year of their marriage. They
turned their faces towards that wild and wooded linn,
which unites itself with the deep glen of Dalveen ;
and as they went Marion looked back on her home
and said, “ It is a sweet place, and loath am I to
leave the hearth where we first kindled our bridal
fire, and seek a refuge in the glens and caverns of
the earth. Elias it is bitter ; but, oh ! eternal life is
sweet.” And she clasped her child closer to her
breast, and lulled it with a little song of her own
making. All the while Elias spoke not; he wound
his gray plaid closer round his body 5 , leaving both his
arms free—examined the edge and point of a sword
which hung at his side, and which seemed to have
been lately used —threw a long Spanish musket over
his left arm, trimmed the flint and looked into the
lock, loaded it —and then, having felt the handle of
a small dagger which he carried beside his sword,
resumed his former rapidity of pace. They soon
entered the ravine—sought their way along a path fit
only for a wild cat, and having reached a sort of
cavern or recess in the rocks, they paused and sat
down on a rude bench of stone, with a table of the
same kind before them, upon which Elias turned to


his wife, took the child into his bosom, and said,
“ See how green the trees are—how pure that falling
water is—how rich the wild flowers blossom—and
how bright the sunshine is, seeking to find us out
amid the thick boughs which encircle our den of
refuge. Look ye down the vale of Nith, and look
ye up to heaven. He who rules above spread out
this beauteous land beneath our feet, and hung yon
marvellous canopy over our heads; and gave unto
us the fowls of the air, the fish of the stream, and
the beasts of the field for our inheritance. But the
wickedness of man mars the bounty of God. We are
deprived of our patrimony ; we are hunted to the
deseit place, and are forbidden to sing the praises of
Him who dwells on high, under penalty of limb and
life. But be not therefore cast down, my love, nor
disquieted ; when the doors of the earth are closed,
those of heaven will be opened : let us retire farther
into this wild and seldom trodden glen, and then lift
up our voices, freely and without fear to God, for
assuredly he is wrath with us because of our fears.
Last night I heard his voice, saying, “ My saints are
fearful and my people deny me; and I shall gi\e
them, for a time, to the power of the strong and the
cruel, that men may know I am wroth with the faint
heart and the feeble in spirit.” And Marion answered,
and said, “So be it, Elias.” And they arose, and
continued their journey along the rude path which
the accidental foot of man and beast had fashioned
in that wild ravine. Sometimes the wafy scaled a
steep and fearful crag—sometimes it crept among the
fantastic roots of the oak and the beech, and some-
times it went to the very margin of the linn, where
the rock, cleft as it were in two, disclosed the foaming
stream at the perpendicular depth of fifty, and some-
times an hundred fathoms. Elias often had to use
all his skill and strength in conducting his wife and
child along this dangerous way.
At length, however, they reached what was to be
their abiding place. This -was a rude but not un-
graceful sort of a temple, formed by the earlier la-
bours of the brook, out of the massy freestone rock,
in the rude pillars of which, and ruder capitals, an
ingenious artist might almost perceive the dawn of
the Tuscan order. The entrance was wide, and over-
hung with honeysuckle ! and the interior was re-
cessed, and presented what, to anchorites, might ap-
pear both seats and couches. 11 Now, my love,” said
.Elias, “ this is the place where our Scottish warriors
of old found refuge when they warred for the inde-
pendence of their country ; and in this place shall I,
one of their descendants, fight the good fight without
fainting. Might and cruelty must prevail in this
land for a time ; the nobles and great ones of the
earth have united against us, and we are driven for a
season, to the heaths and desert places, to be wounded
with the shafts of the hunter.”—" Alas 1 my Elias,”
said his wife, looking earnestly in his face, u and is
our dream of wedded happiness come to this ? Our
hearth is clean—our cottage fire burns bright—the
fiuits of the season are in our fields—our flocks are
not few on the hills—this little one hath come smil-
ing into my bosom, and we have much, much in this
little world of ours to cling to and to love.”—“ Peace,
woman, said Elias, sternly ; “ think ye that I have
s.iut ray eyes on that domestic picture with which ye
seek to lure me? Am I blind as the slow worm and
the mole J No ; those blessings which ye raise in
array against my faith, I prize not lightly. It is not
for the shape of the garment I wear, nor the fashion
of the dish whence I drink, that I thus peril thee
and thy babe. It is for freedom to these limbs—it is
for freedom to my soul—it is for freedom to worship
God according to conscience, that I am thus hunted
from rock to rock, and from cleugh to cavern, Woe
to him on the great day, who hath preferred a warm
home and a sweet wife to the cause of liberty and
the word of God. And woe to him, who seeks us for
harm in this place of refuge : this hollow tube, won
in a sore sea-light with the Spanish Armada, has
never, in my hand, missed its aim ; and this sword
was never by my strength thrust in vain ; so be not
alarmed, my love, but lull thy babe whilst I keep
watch, for the sons of Belial are' ever busy against
the broken remnant of God’s church.” So saying,
Elias stood within the porch of the place, and lent an
ear to every sound, and an eye to every bird that
flitted from bough to bough.
Now it happened on that very morning that Captain
Greer, with some fifty mounted troopers, was on his
way from Edinburgh to Dumfries, to avenge the
defeat and capture of General Turner (called the
Tippling Apostle of Prelacy, inasmuch as he was a
hard drinker,) and had reached the entrance of the
upper gorge of the deep defile where Elias and his
wife sought refuge, when he was met by a messenger
in the disguise of a shepherd, who said that a sore
battle had been fought, in which victory had blessed
the arms of King Charles, but that Elias Wilson, one
of the chief leaders, had escaped from the field, and
was believed to be concealed in one of the wild glens
in the neighbourhood of his cottage. “ His house,”
said the messenger, “is but newly forsaken ; the fire
is scarcely extinguished on the hearth ; I have traced
his footsteps through the dew into the lower gorge of
this wild ravine, where I dared not seek him single-
handed, for he is eminently skilful with the*sword,
and when he has a musket in his hand an eagle cannot
escape him.”—“ What man!” exclaimed Greer, “and
is Elias Wilson—he who can preach as well as fight,
and fight better than the fighting laird of Bonshaw—
lurking in Enterken-glen? then, if we meet, and I
fail to feed the ravens—there’s a pair of them looking
at me now—with his Cameronian carcass, may the
fiend make my ribs into a gridiron for my soul!”
“ W T hisht, captain—Godsake whisht,” said a veteran
trooper, “ no that ye frighten me with such wild
words : but the deil have me, if 1 like the presence
of these hooded-crowds ; they look at us as they look
at a sheep that’s doomed to die on the mountains.
An I were yoii, I would e’en take their counsel, and
keep out of the dark glen—it lies nae in our line of
march—and—” The captain silenced him with a
motion of his hand, and said, “ Corporal Borthwick,
take ten men, and station them privily in the ruins
of the old hunting-tow'er of Dalveen —there they
stand, gray and lonely. They command from the
upper windows the entrance of the Friar’s Cell, where
this fighting Cameronian has no doubt taken refuge
—it is a long shot, but you are skilful. The rest of
the men will enter the ravine at both ends—the
moment you have a full view of him at the entrance,
take a deliberate aim—if he falls, here is my purse*
and you are a sergeant.” Borthwick stationed him-
self and his men according to orders, whilst his
captain went into the ravine on the desperate service
of dislodging a practised warrior, whose place of re-
fuge no one could approach without peril of his life.


“ I think, my lads,” said the corporal, “ our cap- j
tain has shaped out a garment for himself he will j
find some danger in sewing.”—“And I think,” said
a soldier, “ that our corporal talks more like a tailor
than a warrior—l dinna like to be packed up in
this auld tower, when there’s game in hand ; but nae
doubt the captain thought we were all tailors, and
that our courage was but small.”—“ I will show my
face, Moran, where yours dare not be seen,” exclaim-
ed the corporal, standing full in the window, and j
holding the musket, with which all troopers were in !
those days armed, right towards the Friar’s Cell, j
The wife of Elias, wearied in body, and overcome in I
mind with the miseries of that sad morning, had fal-
len into a slumber : but even in slumber there was 1
no repDse ; she dreamed that her house was beset with
enemies, and that carbines were levelled to destroy
her husband . and shrieked out, “ O Elias !” On
looking up, she saw him peering warily through the
screen of honeysuckle which covered the entrance of
the cavern, and cocking his musket as he looked, he
motioned her back—presented his piece and fired ; the
ravine echoed loudly to the report ; and Corporal
Borthwick dropped forward from the window, and his
helmet was seen glittering for a moment, as he drop-
ped dead into the fearful chasm below. “We are
beset all around, my love,” said Elias, reloading
his musket ; “ I have slain one son of Belial, in the
act of presenting his engine of death at thee and me;
but fear not: God will work out our deliverance—so
compose thyself, and keep out of the way of harm.
They know not the Friar’s Cell; it commands both
the upper and lower approaches—but peace, peace.”
lie presented his musket as he spoke ; the lerjeant
that conducted the party who were to penetrate from
the lower gorge, received the ball in his brain as he
gained the summit of the rock, and fell over the
cliff; it fared no better with a second adventurer ;
and the rest, daunted, and believing that the fugitives
were in force, desisted, aud were undecided.
“ Now, my lads,” exclaimed Captain Greer, “the
game has began—the old tower is sending shot after
shot; and there will be nought left for us to do, but
to march to the Friar’s Cell, and report on the dead
body.” So saying, he descended into the ravine, and
wound his difficult and adventurous way warily with
foot and hand. “ Captain,” said the veteran who
formerly addressed him, laying his hand on his arm,
and pointing upwards, “ there's our black forerun-
ners ; that man never had luck that they took a fancy
to yet; but I’ll follow you to the red hot doors of
perdition afore I’ll flinch ; only I have nae faith in
things if these blood-crows don’t believe they are to
feast atween your breast-banes and mine.” It is said
that the captain changed colour as he looked on those
dark companions of his march ; still he went forward ;
one of them uttered a croak, and looked into the
chasm below, where the stream was invisible for mist
and spray, and seemed as if it saw something. At
that moment Greer took off his helmet, waved the
plume to scare them away, and at the same time
moved his head too and fro, and continued to advance.
At that moment a ball from the Friar’s Cell grazed
his temple, and struck the veteran who followed
Kim on the forehead ; the latter in the death pang,
clutched hard the arm on which his palm was laid,
and dropping heavily back, the living and the dead
were precipitated some thirty fathoms. The rest of
the troopers were struck with dismay —their leaders
were slain—no one volunteered to advance ; and as
they stood irresolute, they heard a shot ring again
from the same fatal place, and saw the body of one
of their comrades sink down on the window-sill of
the tower, while his musket, dropping from his
relaxed hands, went rattling down the rocky ravine.
“ All the whigs are come from hell,” said one, “ to
defend this cursed glen—let us march out; place
sentinels at the passes ; despatch two of our fleetest
horses for an officer to command us, and for foot sol-
diers accustomed to such warfare—for my part I can
only 'fight on horseback.” This sentiment, as it
promised security, was embraced by all. They re-
tired to the extremities of the ravine—placed senti-
nels , sent two troopers to Dumfries for assistance ;
and when the day dawned, penetrated unmolested to
the Friar’s Cell:—but Elias Wilson and his wife and
child were gone ; they escaped at nightfall, by scal-
ing the almost perpendicular side of the ravine ;
sought shelter in a distant glen, and foiling their
enemies, lived till times of peace came, when they
returned to their cottage, and lived and died in
good old age. Yet, once a year, as the day of their
deliverance returned, they went with their children
and servants to the Friar’s Cell, and sung a psalm,
and prayed a prayer —and the same was till lately
done by their descendants.
Varieties.
Female Friendship. —l have heard it said by many that
friendship is a cold feeling when compared to love. It may
be so with us men, but not I think with women. Men love
each other on more selfish principles than women do. The
passions, the politics, the mutual services of men, make them
friends ; but women become such from the pure impulse of
their own hearts, when neither passion, nor opinion, nor obli-
gation knits the bond. In conformity l with this, they delight
more than we do in the outward marks and signs of affection
—the sympathies of gentle words, kind looks, and ardent ex-
pressions ; whilst we demand the more essential proofs of
friendship, not merely in profession, but in acts often of the
sternest character. A woman’s delicacy and strength of feeling
rests more satisfied with the will to serve, and in the unspeak-
able joy of finding another existence in the heart of a beloved
friend. — Mrs. Bray.
Babies. - It strikes us that more fibs are told about babies
than about anything else in the world. We all say they are
sweet, yet everybody knows they are sour; we all say they are
lovely, yet nine out of ten have no more beauty than a pug-dog ;
we all praise their expressive eyes, yet all babies squint; we
call them little doves, though one of them makes more noise
than a colony of screech-owls; we vow they are no trouble,
yet they must he attended to night and day ; we insist that
they repay us for all our anxiety, though they take every
opportunity of scratching our faces or poking their fingers in
our eyes ; in short, we make it our business to tell the most
palpable falsehoods about them every hour of the day.—
American Paper.
Foreign Affairs. —lt is a common idea that the most
laconic military despatch ever issued was sent by Caesar to the
Horse Guards at Rome, containing the three memorable words
“ Veni, vidi, vici ,” and perhaps, until our own day, no like
instance of brevity has been found. The dispatch of Sir
Charles Napier, after the capture of Scinde, to Lord Ellen-
borougli, both for brevity and truth, is, however, far beyond it.
The diispatch consisted of one emphatic word, “ Peccavi," “ I
have Scinde” (sinned.) — Punch.
Industry without Reward. —The saddest aspect the
decay of civil society can exhibit has always appeared to me
to be this, when honourable, honour-loving, conscientious
diligence cannot, by the utmost efforts of toil, obtain the
necessaries of life ; or when the working man cannot even
find work, but must stand with folded arms lamenting his
forced idleness, through which himself and his family are verg-
ing to starvation, or, it may be, actually suffering the pain of
hunger.— T. Carlyle.


The Moralist.
HUMAN LIFE.
As the eye of morning to the lark, as the shade of evening to
the owl, as honey to the bee, or as the carcass to the vulture ;
even such is life unto the heart of man.
Though bright, it dazzleth not; though obscure, it dis-
pleaseth not; though sweet, it cloyeth not; though corrupt,
it forbiddeth not; yet who is he that knoweth its true value?
Learn to esteem life as it ought to be esteemed ; ,then art
thou near the pinnacle of wisdom.
Think not with the fool, that nothing is more valuable ; nor
believe with the pretended wise, that thou oughtest to contemn
it. Love it not for itself, but for the good it may be to others.
Gold cannot buy it for thee, neither can mines of diamonds
purchase back the moment thou hast now lost of it. Employ
the succeeding ones in virtue.
Say not, that it were best not to have been born; or if born,
that it had been best to die early: neither dare thou to ask of
thy Creator, Where had been the evil if I had not existed ?
Good is in thy power; the want of good is evil; and if the
question be just, lo ! be condemneth thee.
Would the fish swallow the bait if he knew the hook was
bidden therein ? would the lion enter the toils if he saw they
were prepared for him? so neither, were the soul to perish
with this clay, would man wish to live ; neither would a
merciful God have created him : know hence thou shah live
afterward.
As the bird is enclosed in the cage before he seeth if, yet
teareth not his flesh against its sides ; so neither labour thou
vainly to run from the state thou art in ; but know it is allotted
thee, and be content with it.
Though its ways are uneven, yet are they not all painful.
Accommodate thyself to all; and where there is the least appear-
ance of evil, suspect the greatest danger.
When thy bed is straw, thou sleepest in security ; but when
thou stretchest thyself on roses beware of the thorns.
A good death is better than an evil life ; strive, therefore,
to live as long as thou oughtest; while thy life is to others
worth more than thy death, it is thy duty to preserve it.
Complain not with the fool of the shortness of thy time :
remember with thy days thy cares are shortened.
' Take from the period of thy life the useless parts of it, and
what remaineth ? take off the time of thine infancy, the
second infancy of age, thy sleep, thy thoughtless hours, thy
days of sickness: and even at the fulness of years, how few
seasons hast thou truly numbered.
He who gave thee life as a blessing, shortened it to make it
more so. To what end would longer life have served thee ?
wishest thou to have had an opportunity of more vices? as to
the good, will not he who limited thy span, be satisfied with
the fruits of it ?
MORAL MAXIMS.
ALPHABETICALLY ARRANGED.
No. 34.
Cloudy mornings often bring clear evenings.
Clowns are fit company only for their fellows.
Combat vice in its first attacks, and you will come off
conqueror.
Command yourself, and you may command the world.
Command your temper lest it command you.
Commendation is as much the duty of a friend, as repre-
hension.
Commend nor discommend any one hastily.
Commend nothing so much as strict virtue.
Commit not that to another which you can better do yourself.
Common as flattery is in courts, yet it is the very insolence
of rudeness.
Common consent is the only legitimate basis of government.
Common fame is often a common liar.
Discontent. —The nervous excitement prevalent in the
present age, seems to affect all class's, and the tones of discon-
tent are, I fear, too often sounded. The young expect more
than they find, their tastes get more refined, even amongst the
lower walks of life ; this, in itself breeds dissatisfaction, where
the means are not equal to the demand, and leads too often, in
the sequel, to sin and sorrow.— Memoriter.
1 ruth, L nity, and Concord. l —Truth without unity is weak
and troublesome ; unity without truth is dangerous and mis-
chievous ; and both without charity arc insignificant, andean
not last long.— Comber.
Select Poetry.
LINES
Suggested by reading Stanzas by Miss Camilla Toulmin, entitled
What dost thou Whisper, Murmuring Shell ?”
And dost thou ask me, maiden fair,
The secrets of the deep to tell ?
And can thy gentle spirit hear
The whispers of the murmuring .shell?
Well, if thou wilt, I could reveal
Things wonderful and sad to hear ;
Causing each trembling heart to feel
The throbs of sympathetic fear.
’Tis mine to tell of treasures bright
Hid in the ocean’s coral caves—
Of radiant gems concealed from sight
Beneath the everlasting waves.
Tis mine to whisper of the things
Which swarm the waters where I sleep,
Of wild and fearful birds, whose wings
Flit o’er the bosom of the deep.
’Tis mine to tell of countless troops
Of living creatures, great and small,
Skimming the mighty waves in groups,
Formed by the hand that maketh all.
Here is that great Leviathan,
Who takes his pastime in the waves ;
And here, beyond the ken of man,
The tiniest tenant of these caves.
Tis mine to pour in Fancy’s ear
The fabled secrets of my home ;
To tell of Mermaid’s voice 60 clear.
And water-nymphs who love to roam ;
Of spirits of the air and main,
Who ocean’s gorgeous revels lead,
And breathe each sweet enchanted strain,
Through curtains of the rich sea-weed,
'Tis mine to tell of fearful nights,
When tempests toss the billows high,
Of minute guns and beacon lights,
For sailor’s anxious ear and eye ;
Of lightnings that with vivid flash
Illume the sea with horrid glare,
And waves that with tumultuous dash
Fill the poor crew with dire despair.
And oh ! ’tis mine to tell of rocks
Hid from the mariner’s keen eye ;
Of dread and unexpected shocks,
The shriek—the prayer—the dying cry.
Tis mine to tell of gallant bark,
Riding the waters in her pride,
Sinking like lead ’mid caverns dark ; v
Wrecked by the treacherous ocean tide.
And still 'tis mine to tell of those
Whose sepulchres the deep waves are ;
Of hearts that broke with crushing woes,
When tidings reached their homes afar.
Then dost thou ask nae, maiden fair,
The secrets of the deep to tell ?
And can thy gentle spirit hear
The whispers of the murmuring shell ?
JOSEPH FEARN.
DEVOTION OF TRUE GENIUS.
O Genius ! —undisputed gift of heaven,
From thee what feelings flow ! the passions own
Thy sway, and waken at thy quickening power,
Like flowers expanding to the breath of morn :—
Then bind his temples with a fadeless wreath,
Give him the proudest seat, the princely rank,
And all the deeper homage of the mind,
Who like a god among mankind is felt,
And, from the purest sunshine of his soul,
Sends forth the rays that glorify the world !
MONTGOMERY.


ilotfct.
The Editor does not hold himself responsible for the opinions and
assertions contained in the correspondence and contributions in-
serted in the Colonial Literary Journal.
Notice to CCorrcspontrcnts.
We have received communications from Frederick, T. L, D..
P. P., H., and Gaffer Gray.
H.’s letters are so lengthy that ive scarcely know how to insert
them, unless they are abridged, especially as they are by no
means equal\to former efforts.
jflotico to CTountro Hgcnta.
Our Country Agents are requested to inform us, at their
earliest convenience, of the result of their labours in our behalf
during the pastlhalf-year.
CATALLACTICS.
In our last paper we discoursed in the Avoid of
Liebig regarding the connexion betAveen the organic
and inorganic kingdoms of nature, betAveen plants
and animals, between the ultimate constituents of or-
ganic matter, carbon, oxygen, hydrogen, and nitro-
gen; v,e stated in Avhat consisted the chief differences
betAveen the three chief classes of vegetable com-
pounds ; and then we proceeded more particularly to
inquire whether the nutriment of plants Avas drawn
from the soil, or manures, or the atmosphere, Our
only object being to communicate sound and useful
knowledge, in that branch, or collected branches of
science, Catallactics, Avhich treat of the changes, ex-
changes, decompositions, absorptions, assimilations,
conversions, reproductions, transformations, and reci-
procative influences, and interchanges, of all the
things of nature, Ave make no apology for copying
where we can, and until we have brought before our
readers all that Ave think valuable and applicable ;
and any remarks therefore of our own Avhich we may
intersperse, will have in vieAv merely to relieve their
tension of thought. When A\e consider the vast ness of
nature, the variety of functions performed, phenomena
displayed, and mutual influences exercised, and the sirn -
plicity of the ultimate molecules and of their laws of
combination, we are surprised that six thousand years
(during which a high perfection of arts and a sharp
activity of mind have been attained) should have
elapsed before any approach A\as made to chemical
truth. Let any one compare the chemical Avritings
of fifty years ago Avith those of recent years, the arti-
cles (for example) in the third edition of the Ency-
clopedia Britannica Avith those of the seventh, let
him think how much he has himself casually acquired
since he Avasat school,Avhich he could not have acquired
there, let him enumerate if he can merely the sim-
ple substances, as iodine, bromine, morphine, theine,
chlorine, Avhich were till lately av holly unknown as
such, though in constant use, and the still greater
number of substances daily handled, whose nature
and affinities Avere understood imperfectly, let him
consider how much at sea Aveare as yet in our knoAv-
ledge of meteorology alone, a branch of science so
practically important, —he must in deep humility ac-
knoAvledge that his own education and that of his
race are but beginning. And he must feel deeply
ashamed and abased if he has been accustomed, on
the strength of his own poor attainments, of his
limited local experience, of his beggarly empirical
processes, to fix a bound to the productiveness of
boon nature, to settle unalterably the rules of any
art, to condemn a beautiful country, possessed of
rich soils and climates personally the most agreeable
in the world, to perpetual sterility, solitude and rude
profligacy, and in effect to say to the goodness of
God, which is daily seen developing itself in stirring
mens’ minds to new inventions and discoveries and
improved methods of communication, “ Hitherto shalt
thou come and no farther, and here shall thy boun-
teous waves be stayed.” —Yet this blind and obstinate
presumption is common. The strictest intellectual
reasonings, and all final considerations of moral ad-
vancement, are disregarded, until those of pounds,
shillings and pence, and an actual experiment profit-
able and successful, interpose their powerful aid to
the discouraged thinker. These observations are par-
ticularly true in this colony. The old soldier, or
shopkeeper who has been cropping wheat and maize
from alluvial soils thirty feet deep, now and then
(contrary to his wish but much to his advantage)
replenished by nitrogen and salts by floods, burnt
stubble, &c., and Avho knows not one ingredient of
the soil or plant—calls himself a practical farmer,
and though he and his fields are equally untried, de-
clares that nothing but wheat and maize will do. A
single unsuccessful experiment is to such a one a signal
triumph—no matter if the ill-success can be ration-
ally accounted for by bad seed, or any other accident.
“It will never do,” is his infallible sentence. In like
manner the raw apprentice or antient skipper becomes
by a few years’ huxtering in Sydney, capable in his
own eyes of setting aside the law merchant, which
has grown out of the European experience of cen-
turies, and the decisions of the most learned judges.
Ye powers of eloquence and song, they plead the
usage of Sydney ! In grave simplicity and sincerity
of heart, when you are thinking of Venice, and
Genoa, the Hanse-towns, London, Paris and Vienna,
the ordinances of Oleron, the dicta of Abbott and
Stow ell, the Acts of 6 Geo. IV. cap. 105 and 114,
and their subsequent amendments, the practices of
bankers, brokers, and wharfingers from time imme-
morial, —they thrust in your face the usages of Syd-
ney— mushroom in growth, base in origin, vicious in
practice ! who can stand that ? who can gravely talk
of these and of the dictates of common sense in the
same breath *? In like manner also the impetuous
squatter denounces as a monomania the suggestions
and closet schemes of any one who thinks of intro-
ducing a regard to the laws of nature into his recesses
of single blessedness and savage enjoyment. Honesty,
sobriety, local attachments, domestic ties, which en-
sure care and content in the performance of his ser-
vants’ duties, are nothing to the extra ration. All at
once he discovers, what we told him three years ago
would happen, that his single men are dying rapidly,
and that his diseased black gins are not reproduc-
tive. Does he then endeavour to devise some plan,
enter into some negotiation, by which at the joint
and fairly proportioned expense of the mother coun-
try and the colony, a transfer of reputable persons of
all ages and sexes may be effected 1 ? No, his cry,
his insane demand, is “ more criminals !” A mea-
sure was introduced for equalizing the income tax--
did he consent to the equalizing, and set calmly
to work to get the rate reduced from £lO to £5 or to
£3? He moved heaven and eatrh, and a little also
of the inferior world, about this wretched ten pounds,
yet he will not-move a peg to get rid of the enor'


rnous commercial taxation to which he is yearly sub-
ject, owing to the unnatural state of our internal
prosperity. And when any one attempts to show
him that the encouragement of agriculture and the
furnishing of a natural population to the colony is
necessary, practicable and cheap, that money for the
purpose may be had in abundance and at a low rate,
that any amount of labour might be employed, that
his muttons need not be boiled down but roasted, that
his fleece would escape the banker’s unavoidable ex-
actions, that his shepherds would be more faithful,
watchful, and satisfied} —he opens his own ugly
mouth and swears the country is only fit for sheep,
and shepherds are much the same “ after they are
branded as before.” All these men, farmers, mer-
chants and squatters, are diligent to stifle and sneer
down novelties, but incapable of uniting in any thing
useful, —they might have lived over fifty seven anni-
versaries before they would have thought of import-
ing a Saxon ewe or a vine-cutting. Stare vias anti-
quas Stick to the old tracks—is the rule of these
M'Larties.
It is by considerations like these, that we have
oeen induced to go to the root of things, and make our
liberal extracts from Leibig. Some of our readers
may think them dry, others more accustomed to the
language of physical science will probably find them
deeply interesting. We trust we shall in the end be
able to satisfy both classes of readers, that their intro-
duction into our lectures, though it may greatly pro-
long them, was a necessary part of our desi Q n/ The
connexion of subject in our several papers, or rather
the connexion of purpose in our separate subjects, is
sometimes so little obvious, that it may be proper oc-
casionally to remind our readers that a design does
exist, though the necessary compression of our matter
may prevent its exhibition beforehand, and though
the transitions may appear sudden and capricious.
One part of that design is to vindicate the laws of
nature, in whose great laboratory are in constant ope-
ration processes which the alembics, presses, prisms,
batteries and palettes of human creatures can but
faintly and rudely imitate. Another part is to apply
these laws to our local melioration. Stare vias and-
quas, is also our maxim, but in another sense, for we
know that the old established laws will not overlook
any degree of ignorance, nor bend to any degree of
self-will, nor be long concealed by circumstances
however peculiar. We go by the old rules, not of
men, however, and our spirit carries us to speak of
new products arising out of changed applications of
these ancient rules. One of the earliest of these
general laws formally promulgated, is “ Be fruitful,
and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it
unto you,” and the immediate conclusion or corollary
thereto, flowing out of the extracts we have already
given and are further about to give from Leibig, is,
“ relations between animal and vegetable
organism are such that an increase in the number of
human and other animals necessarily occasions an
increased fertility of vegetation, aud vegetable pro-
ducts adapted for their use.” Of which more here-
after—as well as of another proposition which we
mean to maintain," that the peculiarities of this con-
tinent and hemisphere are just such as render its dis-
covery at the present stage of the world of the great-
est importance to the advancement of the human
race.
GAFFER GRAY
PHRENOLOGY.
The developement of the brute creation is a depart-
ment of the science of Phrenology, into which but
little investigation has hitherto been made, and in
which there is no doubt many interesting discoveries
await future inquirers. When the science shall have
been brought to perfection, by its aid we shall be
able to know how far the mind of man is pre-eminent
over the mind, (if I may be allowed to use the ex-
pression,) of the lower animals, and also to determine
exactly in what particular developements, those of
one species differ from those of another. When con-
sidered in reference to such questions, Phrenology
assumes a more important aspect than what it is
commonly allowed to have, though in its present
infant state, we can have no adequate idea of the all-
important uses to which it Avill be applied, when the
labour and research of scientific men shall have
brought it to that state of perfection, in which we
hope ere long to view it. In considering the cra-
niological developement of the lower animals, enough
may be gathered from general observation, limited as
it must necessarily be, to furnish additional proof to
that already adduced in former papers, upon how
strong a foundation Phrenology rests.
Most of us must at times have been struck with the
remarkable difference in the formation of the heads
of the carnivorous and the graminivorous animals.
If we take notice of a dog and a sheep, for instance,
they will be found to contrast as much in their cerebral
developement as in their actual dispositions. When
we find that the head of the dog is as remarkable for
its width between the ears, or in other words for its
developement of Destructiveness, as the head of the
sheep is remarkable for its narrowness in that region,
and also how much the sheep excels the dog, and still
more so the wolf, in the developement of the organ of
Benevolence—and when we notice how remarkably
this agrees with the character and disposition of each
of these animals, can any, can even the most scep-
tical refrain from being struck with the coincidence ?
but when we ascertain that the same characteristic
difference distinguishes the two species from one
another, according exactly with the habits and dis-
positions of each, how conclusive the overwhelming,
evidence ! The heads of the lion and tiger, and those
of the dog and wolf, may be contrasted to illus-
trate a difference equally striking, but less palpable
than the one already noticed. Although in the
head of the lion the organs of Combativeness and
Destructiveness are very largely developed, yet
they are tempered by a moderate developement of
Benevolence ; while in the case of the tiger, the
former faculties rage uncontrolled by the latter one,
and it is well known that while the lion though fierce
and terrible is nevertheless magnanimous and mer-
ciful, killing only to satisfy its hunger ; the tiger is
invariably ferocious and blood-thirsty, savage without
provocation, and destructive without reference to
appetite. In the dog and wolf the same difference is
observed, corresponding with the difference of cerebral
developement in each. In game-fowls and mettle-
some horses the organ of Combativeness is more
largely developed than in the common individuals of
the species. Among animals that are gregarious, or
of the social kind, forming little communities among
themselves, united by the feeling or impulse of at-
tachment, such as the crow, the rook, the wild-horse,
&c., and in dogs which manifest great attachment to


their masters, we find the organ of Adhesiveness pro-
minently developed. Cats are not so remarkable for
the developement of this organ as of the organ of
Inhabitiveness, or attachment to places, and these
animals although they show no great affection for
their owners, are well known to have a most remark-
able attachment to the house in which they have been
brought up, so much so, that in the case of a removal
from one house to another, it is always difficult,
sometimes impossible, to reconcile puss to her new
habitation. The organ of Constructiveness is found
to be very largely developed in such animals as show
great skill in building dwellings of any kind. In
the beaver, as may have been expected, this develope-
ment is particularly striking. In the field-mouse,
some birds, and many other animals, whose ingenuity
in forming habitations to themselves excites our
utmost admiration, this organ is found largely de-
veloped. Birds very remarkable for their musical
powers, such as. the American mocking-bird, have a
very large organ of Tune, though in the instauce
alluded to, Imitation has a large share in its perfor-
mance, this remarkable bird being endowed with the
power of mimickry to such an extent as to be able to
imitate every wild note of the forest with the most
amazing correctness, and sometimes, with truly ludi-_
crous effect. Numerous instances have been recorded
of the surprising manner m which horses and dogs,
after having been lost have returned to their home,
and of the perfect knowledge they have of a place in
which they have been, or a road by which they have
travelled before. This remarkable instinct is the
result of a very large developement of the organ of
Locality, the faculty which takes cognizance of places,
and with which most animals are gifted in a high
degree. If a person travelling on horse-back have
the misfortune to lose himself on his journey, he will
find it the best plan to trust to the natural instinct of
his horse, which is almost sure to prove the best guide,
and to bring him sooner on the right track than if he
trusted to his own judgement, even assisted by his
reflective faculties.
Æ NEAS.
Original Poetry.
[Having been in the bush during the last two or three weeks,
I have not till now seen your ingenious correspondent “ Join-
well’s” parody on the Latin verses I ventured to send as an
exercise to your youthful readers. If such squibs as this
could meet the eye of the French prince, it might be of some
service as an indication of the light in which his fan-far onnade
and brusquerie are held on this side of the globe. . Louis
Phillipe would add a wreath to his laurels by taking De
Joinville to school again, and imbuing the mind of the “ cruel
boy” with those enlightened sentiments of international amity
which are well known to be cherished, on principle, by that
able monarch. My sole object in sending you the Latin
verses was, to try the taste of those among your youthful
readers who are engaged in classical studies : and should you
deem it likely to promote that object, you are at liberty to
use the accompanying translation ot the verses in question, in
what way you choose.
Allow' me, by the bye, to correct an error (probably in my
own MS.) which occurs in your “Translation” of the Greek
ode in No. 30, p. 45, namely instead of “ the ghost of thy
mother,” read—“ the curse of thy mother.”]
TRANSLATION
Of the Latin verses published in No. 30, p. 45.
Fired with the ardour martial themes inspire,
To martial themes I strung my ready lyre.
Heroes were chosen, —all that could combin
To grace the grandeur of the ten-foot line.
' But Cupid, restless, meddling elf,
Seized the well-strung lyre himself,
And, with arch derisive pleasure,
Laughed to scorn my pompous measure;
Swept the chords with careless haste,
And in rapid strains expressed
The troubled feelings of the love-sick breast.
Who, little Imp, gave thee a right to sway
The meting sceptre o’er the poet’s lay ?
The sighs of love, the virgin heart, are thine :
Ours is Parnassus, and we serve the Nine.
Would the garb of dazzling Pallas
Well befit the laughing Queen ?
Or the flippancy of Venus
Suit Minerva’s haughty mien ?
Could we wish the car of Ceres
’Mid the distant thicktts wheeled ?
Whilst the quivered Virgin, near us.
Scampered in the open field !
Bustling amid battle-cars,
Would we Phoebus’ grace admire ?
Or the murderous hand of Mars
Moving o’er the peaceful lyre ?
Love’s sway is extensive. —Where is Love not adored ?
The homage of love and love’s empire are thine.
W T hat then could suggest
The wild thought in thy breast, —
That the vale of the Muses should own thee as lord,
And Apollo to thee should his province resign ?
P. P.
AUSTRALIAN FABLES.
No. 111.
I'lIE BOY, THE BUTTERFLY, AND THE SNAKE.
The week’s over, the very last lesson is said,
And Saturday afternoon’s come,
I can rove in the bush now, without any dread
Of my father’s or schoolmaster’s frown.
Thus said little Tom, as he saunter’d along,
O’er the Race-course, as careless and free
As the grasshopper leaping and chirping his song,
Or the locust above in the tree.
On he went, down one hill, up another, ah then
Dust and sand were no hinderance to him,
Passing Rushcutter’s Bay, and the mill in the glen,
Only stopping to drink at the spring.
Double Bay lay before him ; he stopp’d and admir’d
The gardens, the houses, the sea,
He’d return, for byrthen he got home he’d be tir’d,
And his father expects him to tea.
Just then a gay butterfly, large as his hand !
On her beautiful wings sail’d along,
Her colours set off by the glistening sand,
And she staid on a neiglib’ring geebong.
With his cap in his band, he the insect pursued,
For his very first step made her fly
From her perch on the branch where so tempting she stood,
Tempting both to his hand and his eye !
On, onward she flies now from geebong to gum,
To wild cotton, epacris, and rose,
Till a five-corner bush put an end to his run,
And his cap did the victim enclose.
There he stood, quite exhausted, nor dreaming of harm,
With his treasure secure in his hand,
When a sting on his foot made him look with alarm,
A brown snake lay coil’d up in the sand.
Tommy scream’d, but in vain ! bispoor brain reel’d around
His breath it came heavy and fast,
And he thought, as he fell giddy on to the ground,
That his life and its pleasures were past.
Some one spoke: he look’d up, the snake raising its head
From the midst of its coils, met bis gaze,
Dancing this way, and that, while bis forky tongue play d,
And lie told Tom his spirits to raise.
" I have bitten, ’tis true, and my poison is found
In your veins, but once more you are free —
If you squeeze the wild cotton milk into the wound,
It will cure you. Now listen to me: —
<• Never more follow pleasure, while duty's undone,
If you do, you’ll assuredly find
That pleasure will leave, when its course you have run,
A sting far more fatal behind !”


LOVE AT FIRST SIGHT.
AN EPISODE OF MY YOUNGER YEARS,
[For the Colonial Literary Journal.]
I was just eighteen—tolerably handsome—possessed
of a considerable stock of impudence—a rather cir-
cumscribed acquaintance with the lore of Greece and
Rome—and, taking all things into consideration, a
pretty reasonable share of the “ready” for a young
fellow of my years and experience, when I was
launched forth from the amiable guardianship of a
Parramatta boarding-school, on what somebody some-
where calls “ the wide stormy ocean of life.” I was
mad as a kangaroo in April—impatient of restraint,
and ready to run head foremost in any labyrinth, it
mattered not how dangerous and intricate it might
ultimately prove. I could woo a maiden, or pick a
quarrel, in the same breath ; and yet, as to my general
manner and bearing, you would have found few
youths of my appearance more modest and unas-
suming. Everybody know r s how eager young men
are, after having reached a certain age, to make their
first step in life—to stem the difficulties attendant
upon it with all the ardent chivalry of inexperience,
and to taste its sw r eets with that keen relish which
long expectation can only give: with me it w r asmore
the vague impatient curiosity of a child at a theatre
previous to the rising of that curtain which for the
present shrouds the sight of the gorgeous mysteries
he so passionately wishes to behold. For all I was
a fine-looking youngster in those days, my w'hiskers
were just commencing to take a manly turn, and,
smoked cigars like a Spanish signora threading
the mazes of the fandango.
It was on a cold morning in June—one of those
law fiosty thorough-bred sneezers that now and then
visit our torrid clime, bringing,coughs, colds, and
consumptions, with other visitations of the same
natuie as their trusty companions, that I stepped from
the door of Nash’s Hotel, George-street, Parramatta,
into his Majesty s royal mail, which, as the guard
assured me, “ w r ould, upon his Ijonour, start in five
minutes for Sydney, calling at the half-way house
upon the road.” Notwithstanding this asseveration,
I verily believe I sat a good half hour alone in the
vehicle before either the coachman took his seat or
any of my fellow-passengers arrived. At length a
stout old gentleman, arrayed in a camlet cloak—
camlets were fashionable in those good days —and
whose hands were further encased in a pair of thick
cotton gloves, remarkably ornamented with red tops,
took his station opposite me, and was in a few minutes
followed by a couple of young ladies of extremely
interesting appearance, who, after the usual fuss of
female arrangement, placed themselves on my right
side, and were in turn succeeded by a middle-aged
man of rather staid and demure manners, whom I
ascertained to be a schoolmaster returning from a
visit of ceremony to a provincial brother of the rattan,
ihe coachman now ensconced himself upon his box
and after three prefatory blasts from the guard’s horn,
we rattled off at a slashing pace, while I bade a long
farewell to the scenes of my scholastic ioys and
sorrows. J
As soon as circumstances would allow, I attempted
to introduce a topic for conversation, but despite my
vaiious polite and submissive attempts to engage the
burly gentleman on some subject of interest, he still
maintained a dignified silence, and replied only to
my inquiries by short gruff monosyllables : the
worthy preceptor was, on the contrary, highly civil
and condescending; but the ceaseless motion of the
coach had in a short time a somniferous effect upon
his faculties, and he placidly resigned himself to the
arms of Morpheus. He of the red-rimmed gauntlets
was by no means slow in taking the excellent hint
thus afforded him, and in an inconveniently short
space of time, our auricular organs were regaled with
the nasal melody attendant upon the slumbers of these
gentlemen, which, though proceeding as it did from
opposite sides of the vehicle, yet in effect formed one
and the same species of entertainment. Excessively
annoyed at this specimen of travelling etiquette, l
surrendered myself wholly at the service of my fair
neighbours, whom I soon found were not at all afflicted
with taciturnity—of course no lady ever was so. since
the days of our mother Eve, and God bless the sex !
it is one of their most amiable characteristics, let
people say what they will—provided, be it under-
stood, it degenerates not into that Xantippe-like
system of warfare which some hold as inseparable
from female organization. They had been, they said,
for some time to a boarding-school at Miss Some-
body’s-establishment, at such-a-liouse, in such-a
-street, in order to perfect their education ; which desi-
rable object attained, they were now returning back
to their native town. Their papa w r as an auctioneer
and general broker, of highly respectable connections
in the metropolis, and kept a phaeton and pair, beside
having all right, title, and interest to a beautiful
villa residence “ outside town,” and a large and
lucrative line of business in George-street: they had
only one brother, and he was an articled clerk in
some attorney’s office, to the end that he might become
a member of the legal profession, and in which sphere
of life he would doubtless at no very distant period
shed honour and lustre on his family. These in-
teresting facts having been duly particularized, the
conversation began to take a considerably wider range,
though I must notice that by far the greater portion
of it was sustained by the damsel who sat nearest me,
and whose soft lisp and light musical laugh, full of
happiness and gaiety, would have enchained the
attention of one much less favourably disposed to
hearken to her communications than myself. We
talked of Parramatta and its people—the banks*of the
river steamers and stages —poetry —Lord Byron,
and peach-pies—love and sorrow—cookery and curl-
papers- Governor Bourke and the late King Bungarree
music and the piano-forte—polyanthuses and pink
note-paper—-the language of flowers—Persian pre-
serves, and the “ Light of the Harem”—painting on
velvet and drawing in crayons—and a hundred other
matters of the like natune. It has seldom been the
lot of a stage-coach to have so much talked of, and
so many points of critical discussion so amicably
settled within its interior, as were disposed of during
that drive of two hours and a half from George-street,
Panamatta, to the southern metropolis.
Quite enchanted with the fascinating garrulity and
good humour of my charming fellow-passenger, I
took the first opportunity that presented itself of
satisfying my curiosity as to whether her personal
attractions equalled in their vivacity of expression
her seemingly inexhaustible flow of spirits, and
managed to gain a peep at her countenance as she
bent over her blue silk reticule in a pause of the con-
versation : and a prettier cast of features, a brighter
eye ; or a merrier smile—and such a smile, so arch.


so pouting, and yet so gentle, I have seldom beheld
in the whole course of my peregrinations. Even this
1 reiterate, though my better half is at the very
moment sitting opposite me,' darning an everlasting
hole, which seems to pursue my grey worsted stockings
like the ghost of Alcsemon did the sandals of Par-
thenes. Pretty features are apt to turn the head of
a youth of eighteen, in a mail coach, or in fact
anywhere else. I was essentially bothered —I saw
nothing—l could think of nothing save the sweet
face I had just gazed upon ; but her silvery vorce
still kept ringing on its melodious notes; she could
talk concerning anything, and to my fancy she spoke
inimitably upon all she noticed.
But all gratification in our mundane sphere must
sooner or later have its conclusion—and the drive
from Parramatta to Sydney is soon accomplished.
We w r ere now rapidly approaching the terminus of
our journey—the spire of “sweet St. James’” now
came in view, elevating its heaven-directed head high
over the wide extent of the metropolis which lay
before us. The morning sun began to look down
brightly from the cloudy sky which had ushered in
the commencement of our jaunt, gilding with his
beams the chimneys and gables of the busy town,
and melting away into a radiant film of molten gold
on the dimly seen waters of Darling Harbour. Well-
known objects presented themselves to our view, as
we swept by, till at length we passed the Gothic
portal which adorns the junction of Parramatta-street
and South George-street, and found ourselves dashing
up the steep eminence which in those days formed
part of Brickfield-hill. Pleasing and grateful as
were my emotions in recognising the various features
of that well-known street, they w r ere altogether of a
secondary nature ;my imagination w r as by far too
much engrossed with the idea of my beautiful neigh-
bour to give scope for any reminiscences of the kind.
We pulled up at the Talbot, the good old Talbot,
and as coachee descended from his box, the mall-
door w r as gently opened from the exterior, and a
hand, followed by a chest of rather bulky propor-
tions, made its appearance. This apparition smiled
with considerable complacence, and seemed quite
exhilarated at the sight of the young ladies, cir-
cumstances which, united w r ith sundry embraces and
affectionate greetings, gave me to infer that it was no
less than an embodiment of their worthy parent.
Any doubts that I might have entertained upon the
subject were dispelled by a prompt introduction to
the gentleman, per favour of his daughter, accom-
panied with many encomiums on my politeness and
gallantry. He eyed me for some moments from top
to toe, just as if he was about to valuate me previous
to my submission to public competition, then pulled
out a black circular snuff-box, on the top of which
was curiously enamelled a full-length portrait of Old
Joe Raphael, and having taken a pinch of snuff,
stretched forth his hand in token of cordiality, ex-
pressing at the same time his happiness at having the
honour of my acquaintance, the unbounded pleasure
he should feel in seeing me atr his residence, and
various other items of the same nature, which people
in the world accept by letting them in at one ear and
permitting their escape at the other, in the same
rational way as they are rendered. But I knew
little of the world, and even had I possessed an in-
timate acquaintance with the mechanism of society,
I was in love ! —and to say that is to say sufficient!
I was received with great joy and no little amount
of festive rejoicing by my family, and after a decent
period had elapsed, i made it my business to pay my
dev oirs to the family of Mr. Snobbs the auctioneer,
for that was the gentleman’s_ name, at his residence
Bluebell Cottage, South Kent-street. It is needless
to describe the state of my feelings in the short time
it required to traverse from my paternal mansion at
Miller’s Point, to the residence of my inamorata. As
I advanced towards Bluebell Cottage, my ears were
suddenly and delightly saluted by the notes of a
piano-forte breathing forth “ soft sweet music.” In
a few moments I found myself in a neat trim parlour,
furnished with that appearance of comfort devoid of
ostentatious finery, and with that paucity of elegant
and senseless trifles which it pleases me to remark, is
so generally the mode in our Australian houses. The
principal ornament of the room was the Polyhymnian
altar, whose dulcet tones I had just heard, and at
which was seated a young lady, whom, despite of a
back view of her person, I instantly recognized as
the being who had made so deep an impression on my
affections. Of course she w r as unfeignedly glad to
see me, and so w r as Miss Sarah the elder sister —and
mamma was a miracle of politeness, and attention,
and civility ! Mr. Snobbs himself who after a couple of
hours arrived at home sweating and puffing from the
fatigues of business —the joint effects of the hot wind,
dust, and an immense auction of horses, sheep, cattle,
and second-hand furniture, seemed delighted at my
visit—the brother, “ the scion of the house,” a tall
sandy complexioned young gentleman, with the off-
shoots of a reddish beard, and a considerable quota
of freckles, and whose body was enwrapped in a
taglioni-like species of blouse, while his legs seemed
like the dapper tightly-strapped trouser-blocks now
and then exhibited at the doors of tailor’s shops, even
j HEj when he understood that I wrote sonnets and
other small ware in the literary way, and that I had
acquired some proficiency on the flute, became quite
the confidential and amicable. What did Ido 1 of
course I talked of everything that I opined might
please my auditors, and did everything that people
usually do, when anxious to secure a favourable
opinion. I eat by sympathy, drank by sympathy
talked of the claims of tea and buttered cake ! I drank
also deep draughts of what Falstaff told Ann Page,
was, et the true ambrosia of our youthful souls. I
never spent a more pleasant evening in my life,
and every one present said the same ; the young
ladies were in ecstacies, mamma was in the highest
decree gratified, the old gentleman averred his entire
satisfaction, and to crown all, the young clerk in the
attorney’s office opined that, "It re-ally re-minded
him of what the po-ets call-ed with great beau-ty,
the plea-sures of am-i-ty 1” As I was handed to the
door, Mr. Snobbs’ last wish was, to “ see me often at
his house,” and as I stood beneath the verandah, 1
imagined, or more than imagined, that Miss Betsy
gazed tenderly upon me —perhaps it was an obliquity
of vision, or the uncertain and shadowy light of
evening that deceived me ! I left the house one of
the happiest men on earth, my brain was one whirl
of excitement, and I found not until I reached home
to how alarming an extent my passion had gained
ground. My visits w ere repeated —and I was usually
received with the greatest civility, though I began
suddenly to imagine that there was a perceptible cool-
ness—l might say with more propriety—a distance


in the manner of my reception. I have, I believe,
somewhere before remarked that I am constitutionally
impatient —but marriage and a family of five amiable
children whose ideas of reason go no further than the
munching of every mortal thing in the shape of an
eatable,—and the tearing of jackets and frocks ad
libitum , are sad things to cool the fires of youth ; my
pride took alarm at this point of family tactics, and
consequently my visits were more regulated and cere-
monious. Meanwhile I heard from various credible
quarters, vague and indistinct rumours of some ac-
quaintance with a young surgeon —some flirtation
between Miss Sarah Snobbs and the individual in
question, and one of my own cronies went so far as
to assure me by way of a piece of private and confi-
dential intelligence, that offers of matrimony had
even been brought upon the carpet, w r ith every ap-
pearance of approval from the young lady herself and
her parents. It appears strange, exceedingly strange,
when I review the circumstances of my acquaintance
with the Snobbs’,—as I can coolly and dispassionately
do, at the present moment, that common sense should
not have interposed a monitory check upon my absurd
and senseless course, —but I beg pardon, I forget that
common sense is by a natural and unalterable law,
banished from love affairs. I resolved however, to
curb for a time the dictates of my passion, or at least
to proceed on a more formal and dignified method of
tendering my affections; while at the same time the
small quautum of prudence which had any share at all,
in directing the state affairs of my brain, warned me
to keep a sharp look out to windward, in case of any
unforeseen circumstances turning up, or any of those
intricate difficulties intruding themselves which are
such incomprehensible mysteries to young people,
and which nevertheless seem such matter-of-fact
affairs to their seniors. This praiseworthy resolution
I had kept, and I acknowledge I had done so with
considerable difficulty for about one month, during
which I had called at Bluebell Cottage but once, and
that one time, to the best of my recollection, the
family happened to be out.
I was sitting one morning alone at breakfast,
chewing the cud of my sweet and bitter fancies, \Tith
the Monitor of that day laying before me, when that
corner of the newspaper usually devoted to “ births,
deaths, and marriages,” caught my attention, in which
I read with a quickness of perception almost electrical
the following paragraph :
“Married. —At St. James Church, by the Rev. ,
Mr. Henry Lancet Skipley, surgeon, to Elizabeth, second
daughter of Mr. Samuel Snobbs, autioneer and general com-
mission agent of George-street.”
u Married !”—“ Married !” I shouted as I leaped
almost frenzied from my chair clean over the table,
upsetting in my aerial evolution the whole equipage
of tea-paraphranalia and scalding my legs in a
woeful manner, while I ran a most eminent risk
of for ever setting an end to my terrestrial specu-
lations by fracturing my scull from end to end
against the sharp jutting corners of the sideboard.
“ Married” I re-screamed, while the long lobby and
stair-case re-echoed the horrible sound in an almost
mournful accent, and seizing a poker from the fire-
place I executed a frantic dance around the room,
somewhat in the manner of a corrobboree, exciting
myself the while, to a most painful degree. By turns
I howled, whistled, cried, sung, and groaned ; while
ever and anon I would read the fatal paragraph and
then sing it to a slow and doleful tune, exactly in
the manner that one would imagine the Greek
elegists of old to have mourned what they believed
was for ever lost to them ; sometimes I protruded my
head out of the window screaming the irrevocable
word which sealed my fate, at length father, mother,
sisters, brother, amazed and terrified at my strange
conduct entered the room. They found me in a state
little better than that of a maniac, roaring and caper-
ing with my whole strength of body and soul, and
when asked in the kindest tones imaginable the cause
of my distress, my only answer was a flourish of my
poker, and the ejaculation “ Married !”
In a few' days my paroxysm of love and madness
cooled. Time, that great softener of the sorrows of
the human race, laid his hands upon my wounds ;
and a few months, during which reflection and
common sense came to my aid, sufficed to puige me
of one of the most absurd passions ever entertained by
mortal man. lam now rapidly waning into “ the
sear and yellow leaf,” and besides being the happy
husband of an amiable and gentle wife, have the
felicity of being called “ father” by five smiling
images of myself. I must still, however, and parti-
cularly in those moments when retrospection holds
her sway over my mental faculties, calling up the
memoirs of the past, look with feelings of peculiar
interest on an incident of my life, which I think, I
may with propriety entitle love at first sight.
D. D.
EXTRACTS.
Legal Meaning of tiie Term “ Dear.” —The foliowring
scene, which took place on Wednesday last, in the writing
chamber of an attorney in this town, well known for his liberal
propensities, is a tolerably good illustration of the different
degrees of respect which gentlemen by Act of Parliament are
in the habit of doling out to their clients, and of the cause of
that respect. The attorney in question was about to address
a “ newly caught” client on some matter of business, and had
called in bis clerk to write a letter to his dictation. Attorney
—Take a sheet of letter paper, James. Clerk—Yes, Sir.
Attorney—Address at the top Mr. D— , and then say,
“ Kendal, 14th January, 1843.” Clerk—Yes, Sir. Attorney
—Then say “ Sir. But let me see. Has Mr. D paid his
account? Clerk—He has, Sir. Attorney—Then address him,
“ Dear Sir.” Clerk —I forgot to mention, Sir, that Mr. D
called yesterday when you were out, and stated that he wished
to consult you as to raising an action against Mr. P
Attorney—O! did he? Then you may say “A/y dear sir.”
Clerk —Yes, Sir.— Westmoreland Gazette.
Self-culture. —l would that I could speak with an awak-
ening voice to the working classes of their wants, their privi-
leges, their responsibilities. I would say to them, “You
cannot, without guilt and disgrace, stop where you are. The
past and the present call on you to advance. Let what you
have gained be an impulse to something higher. Your nature
is too great to be crushed : you were not created what you are,
merely to toil, eat, drink, and sleep, like the inferior animals.
If you will, you can rise. No power in society, no hardship
in your condition, can depress yon, keep you down in know-
ledge, power, virtue, influence, but by your own consent. Do
not be lulled to sleep by the flatteries which you hear, as if
your participation in the national sovereignty could make you
equal to the noblest of your race. You have many and great
deficiencies to be remedied; and the remedy lies not in the
ballot-box, not merely in the exercise of political powers, but
in the faithful education of yourselves and your children.
These truths you have often heard and slept over. Awake!
Resolve earnestly on self-culture. Make yourselves worthy
of free institutions, and strengthen and perpetuate them by
your intelligence and your virtues.”— Charming.
Advertising. —There is but one way of attaining business
—publicity ; one way of gaining publicity advertisement;
the newspaper is the fly-wheel by which the motive power of
commercial enterprise is sustained, and money the steam by
which the advertising is kept going.— Blackwood's Magazine.


COMMERCIAL REVIEW.
The amount of business transacted recently has been merely
nominal, purchasers confining themselves to such goods as
were necessary to supply immediate wants. The importation
of British goods and merchandise, ex General Hewett, is much
larger than has been received for some months past; the
cargo is well assorted, and the greater proportion will sell at
remunerative prices. The present aspect of the wool and
export trade is very encouraging, there is no lack of buyers for
shipment, and amount of Colonial exportation is greatly in-
creased.
Wool has declined a trifle in value. The average price
realized for fleece wool is I4d. per pound.
Wheat. —There is a brisk demand at the mills for Colonial
samples, and prices vary according to quality, from 3s. to 3s. 6d.
per bushel.
Maize. —The market has been well supplied during the
week, coastwise, which has been readily disposed of from 2s. to
2s. 3d. per bushel. Tenders for the supply of 3000 bushels
have been accepted by the Commissariat, at about 2s. 9d. per
bushel, bags included. Other parties in town have contracted
to supply 3000 bushels in meal, to procure which they are in
the market, buying. A further advance in price may be ex-
pected from the great scarcity existing.
Other articles of Colonial produce remain without alteration
in price.
B. S. LLOYD.
General Commission Agent,
10, Bridge-street.
February 12, 1845.
Shipping Intelligence.
ARRIVALS.
February 6.—The barque Australian, Wiles, from the
Whaling Grounds.
February 7.—The brig Governor Phillip, Boyle, from Nor -
folk Island, the 29th January.
February B.—The schooner 7 Don't Know, Thompson, from
the Bay of Islands the 12th, and Hokianga the 28th January.
• —The steamer William the Fourth, Wiseman, from the Clarence
River.
February 9.—The brig Dorset, Walsh, from Adelaide the
19th, and Kangaroo Island the 25th ultimo.—The ship Har
pooner, Debney, from the Whaling Grounds. —The brig William,
Thom, from Launceston, the 30th ultimo.—The ship General
Hewett, Hart, from the Downs the 23rd, and Portsmouth the
24th October.—The schooner Wave, Birkenshaw, from Port
Phillip the 31st ultimo—The ship Herald, Coubro, from
Greenock the 21st October, and Cork the 3rd November.—
The barque Raymond, M’Kay, from Port Nicholson the 28th
ultimo.
February 10. —The brig Bee, Unthank, from Port Nichol-
son Ist instant.—The schooner Phoebe, Bennett, from Hobart
Town the Ist instant.—The steamer Sovereign, Cape, from
Moreton Bay, the 6th instant.
February 11.—The brig Trypliena, Ilindmarsh, from Auck-
land 22nd, and Bay of Islands 28th January. —The brig
Martha, Boustead, from Port Fairy, the 21st ultimo.
DEPARTURES.
February s.—The schooner Waterlily, Hayle, for Hobart
Town.—The schooner Edward, Truscott, f° r Boyd Town,
Twofold Bay.
February 6.—'The barque Hamlet, Wilson, for London.
February 7. —The brig Eleanor, Macfarlane, for London.
February B.—The barque Colombian, Wakem, for Singapore,
—The American ship Franklin, Chadwick, for the Whale
Fishery.—The schooner William, Freeman, for Moreton Bay.
—The barque Jane, Lee, for the Whale Fishery.
February 9.—The brig Christina, Saunders, for Port Phillip.
—The brig Governor Phillip, Boyle, for Hobart Town.
23trtf)S.
On the 3rd instant at her residence, Elizabeth-street North*
the wife of J. C. Raymond, of a daughter.
On the 4th instant, at her residence, 316, Pitt-street, Mrs.
James Reading, of a daughter.
IBeatfis.
On the 29th January, at Camperdown, near Sydney, Eliza
Amelia, third daughter of Mr. Joseph Armstrong, Veterinary
Surgeon.
On the 31st January, after a long and painful illness, John,
the eldest son of Mr. John Dally, aged fifteen years and
seven months.
EBU’CATEOIS’.
Among our advertisements last week was inserted , by mistake ,
AJV. Carmichael's Education Circular. As Mr. Carmichael is
tiow completing his arrangements for the reception of pupils,
after the present quarter, at the Lyceum , Porphyry Point,
Paterson River, we trust that this Notice will remove the im-
pression of Mr. Carmichael's present or intended residence
in Sydney, which the advertisement referred to tvas erroneously
calculated to produce.
TO
MESSRS. PITE AND PRESTON solicit the attention of
Settlers and the Public to their Tailoring Department,
having just received a fresh supply of every description of
materials adapted to that branch of their business; they feel
assured that the merits of their Tailoring Trade are too well
known to require comment, and would, therefore, only remark
to those who may not yet have patronised their establishment,
that the cut, quality, and workmanship of Clothing made by
them are such as cannot be surpassed by any London house :
their scale of prices, for really first-rate articles, is decidedly the
lowest in New South Wales, and Gentlemen from the Interior
can (as usual) be at all times supplied with a complete suit of
Colonial Tweed, or any other material, in ten hours.
Emporium, Pitt-street
JOISEPH SCOTT, Tobacconist, Whipmaker, &c., having
REMOVED from 71, King-street, to those premises
lately occupied by Mr. Emanuel, No. SB2, George-street,
opposite the Savings’ Bank, and being anxious to secure the
customers he had to his old shop, and as many new ones as
possible, he begs to assure them that he has for sale the
FINEST SAMPLE of TOBACCO and CIGARS in the
colony, at such prices as must give satisfaction ; also, SNUFFS
of every description, wholesale and retail.
Whips made to order, repaired, &c.
THE CHEAPEST SHOP IN THE COLONY, AND NO PUFF !
258, FZTT-STBSET,
(four doors from market-street.)
JOSEPH SMITH AND WHITEHEAD respectfully
announce to their friends and the public at large, that
they have received by the Hamlet, and other late arrivals, a
large assortment of French satin, velvet, and gossamer HATS,
of the latest Paris and London fashions, to which the atten-
tion of the public is earnestly invited; likewise to their very
superior stock of ladies’, gentlemen’s, and boys’ and children’s
black and drab stuff and beaver Hats, which they can finish
to aiTy shape or size at the shortest notice. Judges’ and
Clergymen’s Hats made to order.
P.S.—From Smith and Whitehead’s long experience in
some of the first houses in London, they are capable of fur-
nishing those parties who may honour them with their orders
with Hats of any shape or fashion, which for style and work-
manship will bear comparison with any London Hats ever
sent to the colony.
FUNERALS FURNISHED,
sir joHfa - hxx.&, jot,,
AT HIS FURNISHING ESTABLISHMENT,
No. —, King-street, Sydney.
To the Mechanics and Poorer Class of people of the City of
Sydney.
JOHN HILL, JUN., begs to inform the above-mentioned
body of people, that in consequence of the reduced state
of times, he will conduct FUNERALS at the following low
rates, where every attention will respectfully be paid.
Full-mounted Coffin, with use of Hearse £2 0 0
Child’s Coffin, with use of Mourning Coach .... 1 10 0
VABBOYII.LE BUTTES.
HP HE Subscriber having contracted for the weekly supply,
X offers the above at the lowest market price to his friends
and the public!
AVERY BENHAM,
No. 394, George-street.


±?MO ECHO PESLZCO,
OPITALFIF.LDS and FRENCH SILKS (in every new
kj shade of colour), in gros de Naples, gros des Indes,
ducapes, baratheas, satinettes, satins, glaces, chines, camelion
stripes, ottomans, brocades, figures, Washing Silks, &c. &c
Commencing price of plain Silks, 2s. per yard.
CHRISTOPHER NEWTON AND BROTHER
Reg leave to call attention to the above exceeding large and
splendid stock of SILKS, embracing every fashionable shade
and make of silk adapted for the present season.
SHAWLS.
A valuable addition of the new Cashmere and French Lama
Shawls has just been made to their rich and elegant assort-
ment of damask, chine, and brocaded silk and satin shawls.
Also, Norwich, cashmere, and merino turnovers; with a choice
selection of rich fancy silk, and satin handkerchiefs, scarfs,
tuck-ties, &c.
A brilliant display of several thousands of the above elegant
adjuncts to ladies’ costume, will be arranged for public com-
petition. The registered designs are truly superb, in which
art, with the utmost taste and skill, has produced the highest
and most perfect finish; indeed, the entire collection pos-
sesses matchless superiority, originality, and grace. Hundreds
of visitors bear daily witness to the unchangeable liberality,
and unequalled cheapness of this establishment. The pro-
prietors have therefore much pleasure in acknowledging the
continued celebrity their friends and the liberal public enable
them to enjoy. 1
PARASOLS.
In the Parasol Department will be found the very newest
styles; amongst others the “la sylphide,” (a patent for
which has been granted by her Majesty.) This being a con-
signment, G. N. and Brother have received instructions to sell
them off, consequently great bargains will be given.
the bonnet rooms
are replete with the most fashionable shapes in Rice, Rutland,
Dunstable, Tuscan, and Leghorn bonnets.
Women’s Dunstable bonnets, commencing at Is. 11 -*d.
STAYS.
Several thousand pairs of coloured Stays, manufactured from
superior materials, at 35., 3s. 6d, 45., up to 10s. per pair.
* rench Stays of the newest shapes, at half a guinea per pair.
Also, a beautiful choice of small patterns for
YOUNG LADIES* DRESSES,
In printed Orleans, de laines, and chintzes.
BONNET AND CAP RIBBONS,
In unusual variety.
The linen stock is replete in every department, and presents
an unparalleled opportunity to hotel keepers and families
furmshing, oi effecting a considerable saving in their purchases
° f ' r,sh • ; ne hl’ f ” ask Clotl ’ S ’ Russia and Barnsley sheet-
flamek“ &c b “ nk ’ counter P anes, Welsh and Lancashire
SLOPS ! SLOPS ! SLOPS !
tio?J^l her N T°! 1 and Brother earnestl y invite the atten-
stock of slnnf d L oth r S ’ arrivin S from the interior, to- their
stock of sl°ps—a short list of which is annexed :
Men s moleskin trousers, 55., ss. lid., 6s. 6d. per pair
Men s regatta shirts, 18s., 205., 215., 245. per dozen
Men’s" wlX ed ,h- h ! rtS ’ • I ?fi. 6d ‘' 18s ” 20s -’ 21s > 24s P« dozen.
from 2 " laW " fr ° n,S ' Col,ars ’ ™st S ,
Men’s Valencia waistcoats, 35., 3s. 6d., 4s
Shepherds’ coats, 13s. 9d. to 16s.
Men’s Petersham or pilot cloth, equally cheap.
o 4. , bankets, rugs, &c.
9-4 Wnney blankets, 9g . per pair
o ' ditto 13s. per pa j r
S out cotton rugs, 35., 3s. 6d. each
Stout woollen rugs, 45., 4s. 6d. each
Stockmen’s boots, 4s. 6d. per pair.
of sttHsk*of ? r °, tber ’ in Soli citingan inspection
the public tW St^i° f g °° ds ’ t 0 assure their Patrons and
T" 0 * accustome d to thL “modern
thfl If f- ub , lc ma y rel y u P°n having all articles
purcnased at their establishment of the verv best oualitv and
fo/rch tfe " any ° ther hOHSe in tbe a norrloS foct
, , ~ bee-hive
cnnfid C ft 6 f l,ated i S^nce -^ tS comraencei Bent, and they feel
ent, that it only requires a visit from parties intending
to purchase, in order that they may be able to judge for them-
selves, when they will find that not only are the goods purchased
at the Bee-hive of a superior quality to those purchased at
other houses in the trade, but that their charges are more
reasonable, and they will also find that
NO PUFFING
is the order of the day—a system but too much practised by
other houses in the trade, to the manifest injury and disad-
vantage of their customers.
Bee Hive, Pitt-street, February 10.
waxiKss’s foob
IS particularly adapted for sick children, and recommended
by the faculty in cases of disentery.
Sold by all the Druggists and Grocers.
Feb. Bth. 1845.
Sin JBSSES BEltraifcilY’S
CONDENSED SOLUTION OF FLUID MAGNESIA.
THE following is the character given of the Solution of
Magnesia by Dr. Comins, Inspector of Army Hospitals,
after twenty years’ experience, in 1826:
“ Belfast, October, 1826.
“ Murray’s Solution of Magnesia is found particularly bene-
ficial as a pleasing sedative and aperient in all cases of irri-
tation, or acidity of the stomach, particularly during pregnancy,
febrile complaints, infantile disorders, or sea-sickness.
“ An ounce or two of the solution speedily removes heart-
burn, acid eructations, sourness, or irregular digestion of
females and children.
“ In the army, and at sea, it has been found to compose the
stomach in a few minutes after excesses or hard drinking.
“ The solution, of itself, is an agreeable aperient; but its
laxative properties can be much augmented by taking with it,
or directly after it, a little lemon juice, mixed with sugar and
water, or even cream of tartar tea. In this manner, a very
agreeable effervescing draught can be safely taken at any time,
during fever or thirst.
“ The antiseptic qualities of this solution, owing to the pre-
sence of so much carbonic acid, have been found very valuable,
in putrid and other fevers. As a lotion for the mouth, it
sweetens the breath, and the magnesia clears the teeth from
tartar. After acid fruit, it saves the lime of the teeth from
being softened.
“ For preventing the evolution or deposition of uric acid in
gout or gravel, the efficiency of the dissolved magnesia was
long since authenticated by Drs. M'Donnell and Richardson.
“ The solution has almost invariably succeeded in removing
the fits, spasms, head-aches, and gastric coughs, to which
delicate persons are subject, from acids and crudities of the
stomach and bowels.
“ William Comins, M.D.
“ To Dr. J. Muuray.”
The President and meeting at the Royal College of Surgeons,
in December, 1838, unanimously approved of the Concen-
trated Solution of Magnesia, whereby infants, females,
and others, can be instantly relieved of acidities by a tea-
spoonful or two of this mild antacid.
The undersigned having received a large supply of the
genuine Murray’s Fluid. Magnesia, will sell it at the home
prices, as under :
£ s. d.
Half-gallon bottles 0 11 0
Quarts 0 5 6
One and a half pints 0 3 6
Pints 0 2 6
Half-pints 0 1 0
SIR JAMES MURRAY’S ACIDULATED SYRUP.
. One circumstance is felt as particularly favourable to the
general adoption of Fluid Magnesia : when alkaline treat-
ment is not required, or when aperient or effervescent drinks
are more indicated, the Fluid Magnesia is the most eligible,
because the Acidulated Syrup, being separate, may be
added to the Solution of Magnesia, in any desirable propor-
tion, so that either the acid or the alkaline qualities may be
left to prevail, according to age and circumstances.
When taken with a small proportion of Acidulated Syrup,
the solution still contains a sufficient quantity of magnesia to
correct such acids as may be met with in the animal ceconomy.
The brisk effervescence directly settles the 6tomach: and
thousands of letters might be adduced to authenticate this
remedial property in cases of fever, nausea, or sea-sickness.
Sir James Murray’s Acidulated Syrup, in bottles, at 2s.
each.
C. M. PENNY,
558, George-street, Sydney.


C. SVE. PENN"?,
Chemist and Druggist, 558, George-street, Sydney,
BEGS respectfully to announce that he has just received,
ex Sarah Birlcett, an addition to his former stock of the
following scarce articles, the chemicals in which having been
obtained direct from the manufacturing districts in England,
C. M. P. trusts that great reliance will be placed on their
genuineness :
Hydriodate potash
Finest Turkey opium
Powdered opium
Ess. oil bitter almonds, or flavouring liquid
Creosote, camphor, calomel, quinine
Blue stone
East India rhubarb
East India gum arabic (for confectioners)
Spt. sal volatile
Spt. hartshorn
Moxon’s magnesian aperient
Beaufov’s chlorides of lime and soda
Essence bergamotte
Essence lemon
Hydrocyanic acid (Scheele’s)
Lunar caustic
Muriate and acetate morphia
Liq. ammon fort.
Sweet spirits nitre
Sal ammoniac (in fine powder)
Henry's.calcined magnesia
Carbonate ammonia
Sublimed sulphur
Sedative solution of opium
Salts of sorrel, &c. &c.
A large assortment of the various essential oils, gums, and
medicinal leaves, barks, and flowers.
WOTICB.
THE Partnership hitherto subsisting between us, under
the style and firm of Benham and Co., is this day dis-
solved by mutual consent, and all moneys owing to the late
firm are to be paid to Mr. Avery Benham.
AVERY BENHAM.
ROBERT PORTER.
Witness— Charles Malpass.
February 1, 1845.
A VERY BENHAM, in reference to the above notice
returns his grateful acknowledgements to his friends
and patrons for the liberal support he has experienced since
his commencement, and in soliciting on behalf of himself a
continuance of those favours, assures them of his determination
to uphold the character of his establishment, by offering the
best articles at the lowest remunerating profit.
He has just received, ex the Midlothian , a choice assort-
ment of Italian goods, the inspection of which he respectfully
invites. He has also on hand
Hysbnskin Tea of every brand
Souchong and Congou ditto
Finest Hyson
Coffee, raw and roasted
Sugar of all kinds
Negrohead, Cavendish, and Colonial Tobacco
York Hams, Cheese, and Bacon
Butter, a weekly supply.
With every article in the trade; and he pledges himself that
by care in the selection and promptitude in dispatch, to merit
a continuation of the patronage so liberally bestowed on him
self and predecessor.
s3* Country orders will meet with immediate attention.
No. 394, George-street.
JUST RECEIVED,
FROM ONE OF THE FIRST HOUSES IN LONDON,
SIX CASES, containing a most elegant and varied assort-
ment of plain and drawn silk, satin, and fancy BONNETS
which having been purchased in England upon the most ad-
vantageous terms, Mrs. Dobson can confidently assert that
the ladies of Sydney have now an opportunity (which has
never before been presented to them) of selecting really fashion-
able and rich goods, at prices very far below the cost of
making in the colony.
Show Room next the Commercial Bank, George-street.
Bridal and Mourning orders executed in the first style, upon
the most reasonable terms.
MAIZE! MAIZE!!
TO CORN DEALERS AND OTHERS,
FOR SALE, by the undersigned, in quantities to suit pur-
chasers, a limited stock of Hunter River Maize, at a
reduced price, for cash. Early application is necessary.
B. S. LLOYD,
General Commission Agent,
February 8. 10, Bridge-street,
THE WOOL SSASOIf.
SETTLERS, Storekeepers, and ail large consumers, visit-
ing Sydney, are invited to call and inspect the extensive
and well-selected stock of the undersigned, consisting of—
Hysonskin tea, ex Daivson, Isabella, Lord Amherst , Maid of
Athens, and Orwell, embracing those of the finest qualities,
and all kinds of ration tea.
Souchong and congou teas, in chests and half chests.
Fine hyson and congou teas, in ten catty boxes.
Manila and Java coffee, raw and roasted.
Refined sugar, and Company’s pieces, in hogsheads and casks.
Manila and Siam sugars, of all kinds.
Negroliead and Cavendish tobacco, in tierces, kegs, and boxes,
in or out of bond.
Boydell’s and inferior colonial tobacco.
Manila cigars, Nos. 3 and 4 A, in and out of bond.
Liverpool salt, coarse and fine.
Currants and pudding raisins.
Muscatel raisins and Jordan almonds.
An assortment of tea, sugar, and wrapping paper, of all kinds,
by the bale or ream.
Wax, sperm, mould, and dip candles.
Day and Martin’s and Williams’ paste and liquid blacking.
Patna rice, pearl barley, and oatmeal.
Soda, crystallized or carbonate.
Cream of tartar and tartaric acid.
Bluestone and corrosive sublimate.
Epsom salts. 9
Bottled fruits and pickles, of all descriptions.
Fine York hams.
ALSO,
A choice assortment of rums, brandies, and gin, in and out of
bond
Sherry, old port, champagne, and claret, in wood and bottle.
Bottled ale and porter.
Which, with every article in the trade, are offered on those
liberal terms which have already secured for his Establishment
that decided preference which a discerning public have hitherto
so liberally awarded, and to maintain a steady continuance of
which no pains shall be spared which ample capital and com-
petent skill can command.
1 ROBERT PORTER,
City Tea Warehouse, No. 424, George-street, Sydney.
February 8.
CUaaBERS.ABTI>-ST3SBET, GIFFS WAS 3,
(opposite sea-view house.)
HOUSE, LAND, AND PREMISES,
(smith’s shop included.)
*|R, STUBBS is instructed to sell by public auction, at
U,J_ the Mart, King-street,
On MONDAY NEXT, the 17th February,
Sale at 12 o’clock precisely,
AS P I : .R PLAN, ABOUT THREE PERCHES.
\JI that valuable piece or parcel of Freehold Estate, now let
at 6s. per week, situated as above, and described on the
plan, in Cumberland-street, City of Sydney, as Allotment
No. 6, of section 75, between Davis’s, No. 3, and Lucas’s,
No. 7, known as “ Kelly’s Grant,” with a frontage of 21
feet to Cumberland-street, and depth of 84£ links in a side
line south-east by Lucas’s ground, more or less.
*** Although this property is not of the “ magnificent,” in
egard to rental pretensions, that deficiency is owing to its
last architectural restrictions, and easily got rid of by im-
>roved modern “half-price materials and labour;” with 21
eet frontage in Cumberland-street (so improved), Iss. a week
s the rent” that maybe expected. The smith’s shpp speaks
or it as a situation for plenty of work and business in that
vay, and no doubt equally good in any other.
