

COLONIAL LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
“ NON TUA TE MOVEANT, SF.D PUBLICA VOTA.”
Vol. 11. No. 38.]
SYDNEY, THURSDAY, MARCH 13, 1845.
[Price 4d.
MENTAL DISCIPLINE.
It is not a high station, or a low one, great endowments of
mind, or moderate, that mislead us. It is the want of that
balance of mind which is regulated by religious principles and
a good disposition.—Gilpin.
To permit ourselves to indulge in an unfettered lati-
tude of sentiment—to imagine that we are at perfect
liberty to think as we please, and are under no positive
obligations to bring the mind under any control what-
ever, bears so close an alliance to licentiousness of
practice, that it is the first duty of a people, and
especially a Christian people, to counteract and to
remedy so fatal an error. Man is not a solitary being,
destined to live in a wilderness, to brood over his own
day-dreams, to adapt everything to his own selfish
purposes, or to order everything according to the
counsel of his own will, uncontrolled by other agency,
and by regard to the wants and weaknesses of others
of his species. He is born for society, as well as for
himself; and his thoughts, as well as actions, must
be governed and directed according to the two-fold
object of his creation. The obstacles, however, which
oppose themselves to this duty, are of such a nature,
that it is impossible to overcome them, without in the
attempt inducing a total revolution of human character,
as it is at present constituted—without, in fact, effect-
ing previously a thorough subjugation of the will.
Those obstacles arise from the nature and habits of
our race, from the jealousy with which we view any
seeming entrenchment upon what we deem an in-
herent and established right.
Common sense teaches us the necessity of con-
trolling our passions, otherwise the surface of life
would be ruffled by storms without intermission, and
without any hope of their termination. Our liberty
of action, too, we readily allow to be limited, because
if every individual were to be the sole arbiter and in-
terpreter of his own ways, there would be no end to the
collision of interests which would necessarily follow;
the peace and harmony, even the consistency, of so-
ciety would be in constant danger. But to place
fetters upon the mind, and those worked out of reli-
gious principles, this w r e consider so derogatory to
human nature, such a degradation to our pride, that
the very mention of it raises a jealous phalanx ready
to contend with the bitterest hostility against those
who should presume to affix them. * But a greater
degree of self-knowledge, not to mention Christian
feeling, would convince us that the happiness of the
human race depends upon the discipline of the mind;
that, indeed, liberty of action without it is the move-
ment of a machine whose regulator has lost its power
and efficiency. Man is not equal to the task of self-
government, unless his moving principle be derived
from above; because every power and faculty he
possesses is, by nature, under the control of one who
leads him captive nt his will, and whose servant
he has become willingly, and, as far as he himself
can bring about a change, irrevocably. To maintain
the contrary is indeed an assumption as old almost as
the creation ; and the history of the world is an account
of a series of experiments made, under every possible
form, to realise the grand result of self-government.
As far as it possible to judge, however, it is not likely
to be realised, so long as virtue is sought to be instilled
as a beautiful and necessary ingredient in human
society, while the principle is wholly lost sight of
from whence every thing that is virtuous in conception
and in action must proceed. Christianity is the grand
desideratum, not as a profession, but a principle, a
vital, acting principle. And the very first object of
Christianity is to lay the axe to the root of the tree,
to discipline the mind, to place it under that influence
which can alone guide it aright, and make human
nature fruitful, not in good desires and grand aspi-
rations only, but in good and noble actions.
This discipline of the mind is the first duty of a
Christian people ; it is, in fact, the first element of
social order, of moral improvement, of true elevation
of soul; and far from producing those effects so inju-
rious to its independence which many imagine, it is
the true friend of rational liberty and mental aggran-
disement ; and while it checks deviations into error,
it enlarges the capabilities both of discerning and of
prosecuting what is good and right. The first sin
was the spurning of control; the first fatal mistake
of*the great forefather of the human race arose from
the pride of self-government, a dislike of the subor-
dination necessary to his own character and conduct :
other circumstances, no doubt, concurred in producing
it, but his great error—one ever since attended by the
most hurtful consequences to his posterity —was the
self-willed destruction of that equilibrium which the
command of his Maker had imposed, by allowing a
latitude of opinion, a mental liberty, discountenanced
by religious duty, by reason, and by natural affection,
f he injunction which was laid upon our first parents
wa s the boundary-line which to them defined right
and wrong, and was therefore to them a means of
mental discipline. But the imposition of a command
developed resistance to it, and induced the abandon-
ment of all the good they had in possession for some
anticipated extension of rights and privileges. In like
manner, every deviation from right feeling and right


action may be traced to that self-same source from
whence has flowed the turbid stream of human misery,
namely, the pride of self-government, the abhorrence
of mental discipline, the independence of the will.
The grand desideratum, therefore, is to remedy this
primary defect of our nature, —to bring the mental
faculties once more under proper control, —to subject
them to the dominion of those pure principles which
influenced the actions of an innocent being, —to place
them in the position they formerly occupied ; and
while every wayward fancy is checked, to increase
their capability of receiving and conferring happiness.
But such a revolution of thought, will, and affection,
can only be brought about by means similar to those
which actuated man while in a state of innocency.
Recourse must be had, consequently, to the same
power by which he was then sustained; and that
proud, independent spirit, which characterised his fall
from thence, must clearly be made a sacrifice at the
demands of peace and order. This, however, implies a
renovation of moral power, a renewal of the spirit of the
mind, which is as much a work of creation, and there-
fore the sole office of the Divinity, as the creation of
light. But why, it may be alleged, call in Divine aid
to remove a grievance, the cause of which may be
disputed, and for which man’s natural good disposi-
tions, and correct feelings, aided by precept and
education, are fully adequate? This, then, is the
point on which the whole matter hinges; and if man
himself were a competent judge of his own state and
condition by nature, he would be justified in believing
and asserting, that his own powers were adequate to
all his wants, to the remedy of all his deficiencies. But
the account which the self-love of man would produce
of the matter is very different from that, however much
it may militate against the strongest feelings of our
nature, afforded by the Divine testimony. All the
arguments 'which man can adduce from the necessity
of moral subjugation, and the education and control
of the will and understanding, are as unsubstantial as
shadows, without consistency, without force, without
any vital principle, without any analogy to that reason
by which we are governed in our conception and elu-
cidation of general truths. They imply a perfection
in the human being of which he is destitute; a power
to revoke a sentence which has gone forth against
him, which has weakened the moral strength ; the
ability of producing good from one utterly fallen from
his first glorious estate. This the scriptures affirm ;
of this the scriptures point out the only remedy ; and
to them, therefore, as disclosing the mind and will of
the Deity respecting us, we must look for advice and
direction, and to them alone. We have, therefore,
only to ascertain what the scriptures clearly teach and
decidedly affirm, in order that we may fix the boun-
dary beyond which the privilege of thinking and acting
for ourselves must cease ; in other words we have to
describe a circle within whose circumference may be
included all truth, and without which all may be
defined as mere human fancy, and therefore liable to
error.
Christianity, we have seen, is the main source, and
primary means of self-government: in fine, it is in-
tended as a course of mental discipline, adapted to
restrain the enthusiastic fancies of some, to excite the
phlegmatic indifference of others, and to stir up the
attention of all to the first grand end of their existence
.—the glory of God in the conquest over self and the
world.
Biography.
CHARLES MATHEWS.
(Concluded, from our last.)
In due time Mathews departed with his wife, to fulfil his
engagement in Yorkshire. His reception by the new manager,
Tate Wilkinson—well-known in the theatrical world for his
eccentricities—was far from flattering. It should be here re-
marked, that Mathews had by this time become a tall, thin,
consumptive looking person, the twist in his mouth having
rather increased than not, so as to bear out the after descrip-
tion of a fellow-performer : —“ Why, he’s the tallest man in
-the world, and the funniest. lie has no regular mouth, but
speaks from a little hole in his cheek.” Such was the figure
which presented itself to the York manager, and he received
his visitor with expressions of chilling discouragement, calcu -
lated to extinguish every spark of professional ardour. He
declared that Mathews was too thin for broad comedy ; indeed,
he had never seen anybody so thin to be alive. “ Why, sir,”
he added, “ one hiss would blow you off the stage !” Under
so heavy a discouragement, Mathews made but slow progress
in the favour of the public ; and here his example affords
another lesson to beginners of any profession. Attention to
business, even to that of an actor, is a certain motive-power
of success; and this quality the young comedian possessed.
His humble perseverance, his watchful readiness, eventually
overcame all obstructions : his “ study” (that is, diligence in
the irksome task of committing parts to memory) was mira -
culous, and he could always be depended upon. By such
well-directed perseverance, he rose into high favour not only
with his audiences, but with his hitherto discouraging manager,
and became the leading comedian on the York “ circuit,” or
theatres in each of a group of neighbouring towns conducted
by the same manager.
In 1801, his increasing fame was chequered with misfortune ;
he received a severe hurt from the falling of a platform, and
next morning got the the painful intelligence that his elder
brother —the last of twelve brothers and sisters who had been
carried off by consumption—was also no more. Nor had he
quite recovered from his accident, before his wife was seized
with an illness of which she died in May 1802. This was a
distressing blow to the husband; fits, to which he was occa-
sionally subject, assailed him with redoubled violence; and on
returning to his employment when convalescent, he seemed
overwhelmed by the effects of sickness and sorrow. In the
autumn, however, an event occurred which did much to restore
and cheer his mind: his reputation having reached London,
he was offered a principal situation in the Hay market theatre,
London, at a salary of £lO per week which he of course
accepted.
Immediately before leaving York, in March 1803, Mathews
took unto himself a second spouse. The lady of his choice —
a member of the same company—had been the bosom friend of
his first wife, who on her death-bed expressed a wish for the
union which now took place. His present partner, a pleasing
actress and singer, also obtained an engagement at the Hay-
market. The bride, like her predecessor, was received with
the utmost cordiality by her husband’s family on coming to
town in May. His first appearance before a London audience
was successful; and during the season, he completely estab-
lished himself as an admirable personator of lively, humorous
characters. This is easily accounted for, as Mathews was
never satisfied with merely learning the words of his parts; he
really studied them. He persevered in diligent observations
of peculiarities in other men, not only observing character, but
he means of giving his constant observation effect cr r the
stage. He was a diligent attendant, formerly in York, and now
in London, on die proceedings of courts of justice, and a fre


quent visitor to the House of Commons, to which, when in the
height of popularity, he enjoyed the entree by the kindness of
Lord Canterbury, then the speaker. Like an admirable artist
in another branch of art, Wilkie, he also attended races, fairs,
and, in short, wherever there was a chance of catching up any
eccentric phase of human character. For a number of years
he remained a member of one or other of the best London
theatres, and was received in private life amongst the highest
circles of society, including even that of royalty. These were
honours accorded to his worth and modest deportment, though
it was evident that certain party-giving ladies only invited him
for his powers of amusing. Far from obtruding' those powers,
he disliked showing them off in company, for his habits were
retiring, indeed taciturn. He used to relate, that, dining one
day at a house where he was little known, except as a public
performer, the guests were manifestly disappointed to find him
so staid and grave; in short, so much the gentleman, and so
little the comedian. At last the hostess, out of all patience
with the mere common sense of his remarks, sent him a mes-
sage by her spoilt child, which was delivered in the words—
“ Please, Mr. Mathews, Ma’s compliments, and when are you
going to be funny ?”
In IS 14, an accident occurred to Mr Mathews, which threat-
ened to banish him from the stage ; he was thrown from a gig,
and hurt one of his legs so seriously, that he was crippled for
the rest of his life. The latter result was mainly brought about
by his exerting himself as a performer too soon after°the acci-
dent. 1 1, however, changed the whole course of his career, and
helped to develop powers of mimicry in personating—with the
most minute exactness - the leading eccentricities of human
character, which were never before equalled. After a visit to
Paris in March 1818, Mathews gave his first “entertainment,”
in which he undertook to keep the attention of an audience
alive, and their risible muscles in motion, for two or three
hours, by his own unaided efforts. Having announced that
Mr. Mathews would be “ at home” on a certain evening, when
it arrived, the English Opera House was crowded. The pre-
parations were of the most simple kind. The stage was made
to represent a drawing room, with a pianoforte in it, at which
a musician was stationed to accompany the songs. For the
use of the performer himself, nothing was to be seen but a
small table provided with a lamp at each side, so disposed as
to throw a strong light upon his face. The entertainment con-
sisted, in fact, of a series of sketches of real life, so true to
nature—notwithstanding a slight exaggeration necessary to
make them amusing—that they seemed more like realities than
copies. The delusion was aided by appropriate dresses for the
upper part of his figure, so constructed—by every article
being sewn together—that he could slip each over his head as
he required it while sitting at the table, under which the
curious wardrobe was concealed. One of the most successful
portraits was that of an old Scotchwoman, who was always
telling a "leetle anecdote.” The songs were descriptions of
various adventures, such as those which often happen in a
mail coach, at fairs, races, &c.
The public were so much amused and astonished, that the
success of the experiment was speedily proved, and Mr.
Mathews produced a fresh entertainment every year, first in
London, and afterwards travelling with it in the provinces to
f eodand end to Ireland, to amuse the vast numbers who
nightly flocbed to see him. In 1822 he visited Edinburgh
anu recent**. most marked attention from Sir Waiter Scott’
Whose semrt as author of W.vcriy he had some yei* before
1 a*, very V *«'>; '''rough a dinner-table indiscretion
. « - printers or,he novel. It was, however, qui.e
X . X'X “ VCT div,l, Bedi8 edit ' or even hinted
Abbot •’ d V X- **’ ar ' e, ' tva!js a frequent visitor at
Abbot:-.0.a in ..y? „i utll , , s wen , t 0 Aroeric>i where Ws
entertainments were rapturously received. He had, however,
another object besides amusing the American public, which
was to collect materials for a new budget of trans-Atlantic
character and fun. Soon after his return in 1823, he pro-
duced Ins “ Trip to America,” which was one of his most
popular and successful efforts. Much of the force of the piece,
it will be recollected, consisted in the actor’s representation of
a Kentucky man of the true planter breed, who is continually
asking everybody if they will buy a nigger-a good-natured
glossy black who is in Ins train; and of his ludicrous imitation
of negro theatricals and songs
“ Now is the winter of our discontent
Made glorious summer in the death of New York,” &c.
Large sums of money were acquiree! by these entertain-
ntents ; but unfortunately, the full benefit of his successes was
den,ed to * le performer, in consequence of an agreement wTh
a manager before the experiment was made, to receive from
I'm a fixed yearly stipend, upon condition of all the risk
be.ng incurred by the said manager. The term of ,hi bond
orTdm" , 6 W, ” Ch MalheWS ' f "‘- -or,ions 2!
for a time the.r adequate reward, and he entertained the
fonu„ C e° n n" OWI T° Unt - BU ‘ he MS again d °°™« *• »i-
-rtune. During the severe commercial panic in 182fi he
va, a severe pecuniary sufferer, and afterwards los'ln!
c . ar f \. by Ile bad falth of a fraudulent banker. Slill
Charles Mathews continued to reap “golden opinions of all
sorts of men,” up ,833, when he began feel the ill effects
ch constant and laborious exertion upon his frame
hese symptoms gradually increased, till, i n the year 1835
while on a visit to a friend at Plymouth, it was formally
announced h,s wife that recovery was next to impossible
On his fifty-ninth birthday, Charles Mathews expired in the
arms of Ins wife, who had hastened to his bedside some weeks
sxsxxxxx;-
r.:. rs ,x~ x :r
lations to Lady Blessington, he said--Translations, 0 for The
most part resemble imitations where the marked defects are
exaggerated, and the beauties passed over; always excepting
the mutations of Mathews, who seems have continues
tubers* Sm ' nd ’ ‘ hat Vibrate ,bose in ">« minds of
others, as he gives not only the look, tones, and manners of
■e persons he personifies, but the very train of thinking, and
he express, °ns they indulge in; and strange to say! this
modern Pro.eus succeeds best when the imitated is a person
o genius or great talent, as he seems to identify himself with
m. His imitation of Curran can hardly be so called •itis a
continuation, and is inimitable. I remember Sir Walter Scott's
who er h V 7’,> ha ! imi,ations *>- -M. 'C those
»ho had the key; but as the majority had it not, they were
contented with admiring those of the person, and pronounced
him a mimic who ought lo be considered an accurate and
philosophic observer of human nature, blessed with the rare
, of intuitively identifying himself with the minds of
others.”
SKSWSU 2£" m 'Z£&&
™‘: m, ; lta -"* »" *e coach, who SHl ”ke tifi vHe ,
»eed S A m'a? Hll" tlle ° dol,r of tb <* filthy
„; P A ™ dn at all eas y 111 his circumstances would spare
sssrc bv ,akiiig t,ie ™p'»


THE MIND BEYOND THE GRAVE.
We cannot but feel that we are beings of a twofold
nature —that our journey to the tomb is short, and
the existence beyond it immortal. Is there any
attainment that we may reserve, when we lay down
the body ? We know that of the gold which perishes,
we may take none with us when dust returneth to
dust. Of the treasures which the mind accumulates,
may we carry aught with us to that bourne whence
no traveller returns ?
We may have been delighted with the studies of
nature, and penetrated into those caverns where she
perfects her chemistry in secret. Composing and de-
composing—changing matter into nameless forms —
pursuing the subtilest essences through the air, and
resolving even that air into its original elements—
what will be the gain, when we pass from material to
immaterial, and this great museum and laboratory, the
time-worn earth, shall dissolve in its own central fires ?
We may have become adepts in the physiology of
man, scanning the mechanism of the eye, till light
itself unfolded its invisible laws —of the ear, till its
most hidden reticulations confessed their mysterious
agency with sound —of the heart, till that citadel of
life revealed its hermit policy ; but will these re-
searches be available, in a state of being which “ eye
hath not seen, nor ear heard, nor the heart of man
conceived ?”
Will he who fathoms the water, and computes its
pressure and power, have need of this skill, “ where
there is no more sea?” Will the mathematician ex-
ercise the lore by which he measured the heavens, or
the astronomer the science which discovered the stars,
W’hen (Tailed to go beyond their light ?
Those who have penetrated most deeply into the
intellectual structure of man, lifted the curtain from
the birth-place of thought, traced the springs of action
to their fountain, and thrown the veiled, shrinking
motive into the crucible, perceive the object of their
study, taking a new form, enter disembodied an un-
known state of existence, and receiving powers adapted
to its laws and modes of intercourse.
We have no proof that the sciences, to which years
of labour have been devoted, will survive the tomb.
But the impressions they have made, the dispositions
they have nurtured, the good or evil they have helped
to stamp upon the soul, will go with it into eternity.
The adoring awe, the deep humility, inspired by the
study of the planets and their laws, the love of truth,
which he eherished who pursued the science that de-
monstrates it, will find a response among archangels.
The praise that was learned amid the melodies of
nature, or from the lyre of consecrated genius, may
pour its perfected tones from a seraph’s harp. The
goodness taught in the whole frame of creation, by
the flower lifting its honey-cup to the insect, and the
leaf drawing its green curtain around the nursing-
chamber of the smallest bird, by the pure stream,
refreshing both the grass and the flocks that feed on
it, the tree, and the master of its fruits, the tender
charity caught from the happiness of the humblest
creature, will be at home in His presence who hath
pronounced himself the “ God of love.”
The studies, therefore, which we pursue, as the
means of intellectual delight, or the instruments of
acquiring wealth and honour among men, are valuable
at the close of life, only as they have promoted those
dispositions which constitute the bliss of an unending
existence. Tested by its tendencies beyond the grave,
religion, in its bearing and results, transcends all other
sciences. The knowledge which it imparts does not
perish with the stroke which disunites the body from
its ethereal companion. Whilst its precepts lead to
the highest improvement of this state of probation,
its spirit is congenial with the ineffable reward to
which we aspire. It is the preparation for immortality,
which should be daily and hourly wrought out, amid
all the mutations of time.— Mrs. Sigourney.
History.
ANCIENT HISTORY.—SECTION XXXIV.
[concluded.]
6. The Roman republic had thus finally, by its own acts, re-
signed its liberties. They were not extinguished, as Montes-
quieu has justly remarked, by the ambition of a Pompey, or of
a Caesar. If the sentiments of Caesar and Pompey had been
the same with those of Cato, others would have had the same
ambitious thoughts; and since the commonwealth was fated
to fall, there never would have been wanting a hand to drag it
to destruction. Yet Caesar had by force subdued his country;
he therefore was an usurper ; and had it been possible to re-
store the liberties of the republic, and with these its happi-
ness, by the suppression of that usurpation, the attempt had
merited the praise at least of good design. Perhaps so thought
his murderers ; and thus, however weak their policy, however
base and treacherous their act, with many they will ever find
apologists. They madly dreamed an impossible issue, as the
event demonstrated.
7. A conspiracy was formed by sixty of the senators, at the
head of whom were Brutus and Cassius; the former a man
beloved of Caesar, who had saved his life, and heaped upon
him numberless benefits. It was rumoured that the dictator
wished to add to his numerous titles that of king, and that the
Ides of March was fixed on for investing him with the diadem.
On that day, when taking his seat in the senate-house, he was
suddenly assailed by the conspirators; he defended himself
for some time against their daggers, till, seeing Brutus amongst
the number, he faintly exclaimed, ‘ And you, too, my son!’ and
covering his face with his robe, resigned himself to his fate.
He fell, pierced by twenty-three wounds, at the foot of Pom-
pey’s statue, in the fifty-sixth year of his age (a.u.c. 711,
b.c. 431.
8. The Roman people were struck with horror at the deed ;
they loved Csesar, master as he was of their lives and liberties.
Mark Antony, who was consul, and Lepidus, the general of
the horse, ambitious of succeeding to the power of the die-»
tator, resolved to pave the way by avenging his death. The
people, to whom Caesar, by his testament, had bequeathed a
great part of his fortune, were penetrated with gratitude to his
memory. A public harangue from Antony over the bleeding
body, exposed in the forum, inflamed them with the utmost
indignation against his murderers, who must have met with
instant destruction, had they not escaped with the utmost pre-
cipitation from the city. Antony profited by these disposi-
tions ; and the avenger of Caesar, of course the favourite of
the people, was in the immediate prospect of attaining a simi-
lar height of dominion. In this, however, he found a formida-
ble competitor in Octavius, the grand-nephew and the adopted
heir of Caesar, who at this critical moment arrived in Rome.
Availing himself of these titles, Octavius gained the senate to
his interest, and divided with Antony the favour
ple. The rivals soon perceived that it was their wisest plan
to unite their interests; and they admitted Lepidus into theit
association, whose power, as governor of Gaul, and inntsense
riches, gave him a title to a share of authority. Thus was


formed the second Triumvirate, the effects of whose union
were beyond measure dreadful to the republic. The Trium-
viri divided among themselves the provinces, and cemented
their union by a deliberate sacrifice made by each of his best
friends to the vengeance of his associates. Antony consigned
to death his uncle Lucius Caesar; Lepidus, his brother Paulus ;
and Octavius, his guardian Toranius, and his friend Cicero.
In this horrible proscription 300 senators and 3,000 knights
were put to death.
9. Octavius and Antony now marched against the conspira-
tors, who had a formidable army in the field in Thrace, com-
manded by Brutus and Cassius. An engagement ensued at
Philippi in Macedonia, which decided the fate of the empire.
Antony was victorious, for Octavius had no military talents ;
he was destitute even of personal bravery; and his conduct
after the victory was stained with that cruelty which is ever
the attendant of cowardice. Brutus and Cassius escaped the
vengeance of their enemies by a voluntary death. Antony
now sought a recompense for his troops by the plunder of the
East. While in Cilicia, he summoned Cleopatra to answer
for her conduct in dethroning an infant brother, and in openly
favouring the party of Brutus and Cassius. The queen came
to Tarsus, and made a complete conquest of the Triumvir.
Immersed in luxury, and intoxicated with love, he forgot
glory, ambition, fame, and every thing for Cleopatra; and
Octavius saw this frenzy with delight, as the preparative ol his
rival’s ruin. He had nothing to dread from Lepidus, whose
insignificant character first drew upon him the contempt of his
partizans ; and whose folly, in attempting an invasion of the
province of his colleague, was punished by his deposition and
banishment.
10. Antony had in his madness lavished the provinces of
the empire in gifts to his paramour and her children. The
Roman people were justly indignant at these enormities : and
the divorce of his wife Octavia, the sister of his colleague, was
at length the signal of declared hostility between them. An
immense armament, chiefly naval, came to a decisive conflict
near Actium, on the coast of Epirus. Cleopatra, who attended
her lover, deserted him with her galleys in the heat of the en-
gagement; and such was the infatuation of Antony, that he
abandoned his fleet and followed her. After a contest of some
hours, they yielded to the squadron of Octavius (a.u.c. 723,
B.c. 31). The victor pursued the fugitives to Egypt; and the
base Cleopatra proffered terms to Octavius, including the sur-
render of her kingdom, and the abandonment of Antony.
After an ineffectual attempt at resistance, he anticipated his
fate by falling on his sword. And Cleopatra soon after, either
from remorse, or more probably from mortified ambition, as
she found it was Octavius’s design to lead her in chains to
Rome to grace his triumph, had courage to follow the example
of her lover, and put herself to death by the poison of an asp.
—Egypt, in the 295th year from the.death of Alexander the
Great, became a Roman province.—Octaviu returned to
Rome, sole master of the Roman empire (a.u.c. 727, b.c 27).
VERTUMNUS AND POMONA.
V LEIGH HUNT.
Weak and uninitiated are they who talk of things
modern as opposed to the idea of antiquity ; who
fancy that the Assyrian monarchy must have pre-
ceded tea-drinking ; and that no Sims or Gregson
walked in a round hat.and trowsers before the times
of Inachus. Plato has informed us (and therefore
every body ought to know) that at stated periods of
time, everything which has taken place on earth is
acted over again . there have been a thousand or a
million reigns, for instance, of Charles the Second,
and there will be an infinite number more : the tooth-
ache we had in the year 1841, is making ready for
us some thousands of years hence ; again shall
people be wise and in love, as surely as the May-
blossoms reappear; and again will Alexander make
a fool of himself at Babylon, and Bonaparte in Russia.
Among the heaps of modern stories, which are
accounted ancient, and which have been deprived of
their true appearance by the alteration of colouring
and costume, there is none more decidedly belonging
to modern times than that of Vertumnus and Pomona.
Vertumnus was, and will be, a young fellow, re-
markable for his accomplishments, in the several
successive reigns of Charles the Second ; and, I find,
practised his story over again in the autumn of the
year 1680. He was the younger brother of a res-
pectable family in Herefordshire; and from his genius
at turning himself into a variety of shapes, came to
be called, in after ages, by his classical name. In
like manner, Pomona, the heroine of the story, being
the goddess of those parts, and singularly fond of their
scenery and productions, the Latin poets, in after
ages, transformed her adventures according to their
fashion, making her a goddess of mythology, and
giving her name after her beloved fruits. Her leal
name was Miss Appleton. I shall therefore waive
that matter once for all; and, retaining only the
appellation which poetry has rendered so pleasant,
proceed with the true story.
Pomona was a beauty, like her name, all fruit and
bloom. She was a ruddy brunette, luxuriant with-
out grossness; and had a spring in her step, like
apples dancing on a bough. (I’d put all this into
verse, to which it has a natural tendency ; but I
haven’t time.) It was no poetical figure to say of
her, that her lips were cherries, and her cheeks a
peach. Her locks, in clusters about her face, trem-
bled heavily as she walked ; the colour called Pomona
green was named after her favourite dress. Sometimes
in her clothes she imitated one kind of fruit and
sometimes another, philosophizing in a pretty poetical
manner on the common nature of things, and saying
there was more in the smiles of her lovers than they
suspected. Her dress now resembled a burst of white
blossoms, and now of red ; but her favourite one was
green, both coat and boddice, from which her beautiful
face looked forth like a bud. To see her tending the
trees in her orchard (for she w r ould work herself, aud
sing all the while like a milk-maid) —to see her, I
say, tending the fruit-trees, never caring for letting
her boddice slip a little off her shoulders, and turning
away now and then to look up at a bird, when her
lips would glance in the sunshine like cherries be-
dewed, —such a sight, you may imagine, was to be
had eveiy where. The young clowns would get up
in the trees for a glimpse of her, over the garden wall;
and swear she was like an angel in Paradise.
Every body was in love with her. The squire was
in love with her ; the attorney was in love with her ;
the parson was particularly in love. The peasantry
in their smock-frocks, old and young,were all in love.
You never saw such a loving place in your life ; yet
somehow or other the women were not jealous, nor
fared the worse. The people only seemed to have
grown the kinder. Their hearts overflowed to all
about them. Such toasts at the great house ! The
Squire’s name was Payne, which afterwards came to
be called Pan. Pan, Payne (Paynim,) Pagan, a
villager. The race was so numerous, that country


gentlemen obtained the name of Paynim in general,
as distinguished from the nobility ; a circumstance
which has not escaped the learning of Milton:
Both Paynim and the Peers.
Silenus was Cy or Cymon Lenox, the host of the
Tun, a fat merry old fellow, renowned in the song
as Old Sir Cymon the King. He was in love too.
All the Satyrs, or rude wits of the neighbourhood,
and all the Fauns, or softer-spoken fellows, none of
them escaped. There was also a Quaker gentleman,
I forget his name, who made himself conspicuous.
Pomona confessed to herself that he had merit; but
it was so unaccompanied with anything of the orna-
mental or intellectual, that she could not put up with
him. Indeed, though she was of a loving nature, and
had every other reason to wish herself settled (for she
was a heiress and an orphan,) she could not find in
her heart to respond to any of the rude multitude
around her ; which at last occasioned such impatience
in them, and uneasiness to herself, that she was fain to
keep close at home, and avoid the lanes and country
assemblies for fear of being carried off. It was then
that the clowns used to mount the trees outside her
garden wall to get a sight of her.
Pomona wrote to a cousin she had in town, of the
name of Cerintha. “ Oh, my dear Cerintha, what
am Ito do! I could laugh while I say it, though
the tears positively come into my eyes ; but it is a
sad thing to be an heiress with ten thousand a-year,
and one’s guardian just dead. Nobody will let me
alone. And the worst of it is, that w r hile the rich
animals that pester me, disgust one with talking about
their rent-rolls, the younger brothers force me to be
suspicious of their views upon mine. I could throw
all my money into the Wye for vexation. God knows
Ido not care two-pence for it. Oh, Cerintha! I
wish you were unmarried, and could change yourself
into a man, and come and deliver me; for you are
disinterested and sincere, and that is all I require.
At all events, I will run for it, and be with you before
winter ; for here I cannot stay. Your friend the
Quaker has just rode by. He says ‘ verily,’ that lam
cold! I say, verily, he is no wiser than his horse ;
and that I could pitch him after my money.”
Cerintha sympathised heartily with her cousin, but
she was perplexed to know what to do. There were
plenty of wits and young fellows of her acquaintance,
both rich and poor ; but only one whom she thought
fit for her charming cousin, and he was a younger
brother, as poor as a rat. Besides, he was not only
liable to suspicion on that account, but full of deli-
cacies of his own, and the last man in the world to
hazard a generous woman’s dislike. This was no
other than our friend Vertumnus. His real name
was Vernon. He lived about five miles from Pomona,
and was almost the only young fellow of any vivacity,
who had not been curious enough to get a sight of her.
He had got a notion that she w r as proud. “ She may
he handsome,” thought he : “ but a handsome proud
face is but a handsome ugly one to my thinking, and
I’ll not venture my poverty to her ill-humour.”
Cerintha had half made up her mind to undeceive him
through the medium of his sister, who was an ac-
quaintance of hers ; but an accident did it for her.
Vertumnus was riding one day with some friends,
who had been rejected, when passing by Pomona’s
orchard, he saw one of her cloAvnish admirers up in
a tree, peeping at her over the walk The gaping.
unsophisticated admiration of the lad made them stop,
“ Devil take me.” said one of our hero’s companions,
“if they are not at it still. Why, you booby, did
you never see a proud woman before, that you stand
gaping there, as if yeur soul had gone out of ye?”
“ Proud,” said the lad, looking down “ a woudn’t
say nay to a fly, if gentlefolks wouldn’t teaze ’un so.”
“ Come,” said our hero, “ I’ll take this opportunity,
and see for myself.” He was up in the tree in an
instant, and almost as speedily exclaimed, “ God 1
What a face !”
“ He has it, by the lord !” cried the others, laugh-
ing -. “ fairly struck through the ribs, by Jove. Look
if looby and he arn’t sworn friends on the thought
of it !”
It looked very like it certainly. Our hero had
scarcely gazed at her, when, without turning away
his eyes, he clapped his hand upon that of the peasant
with a hearty shake, and said “ You’re right, my
friend. If there is pride in that face, truth itself is a
lie. What a face ! What eyes ! What a figure !”
Pomona was observing her old gardener fill a bas-
ket. From time to time he looked up at her, smiling
and talking. She was eating a plum ; and as she
said something that made him laugh, her rosy mouth
sparkled with all its pearls in the sun.
“ Pride !” thought Vertumnus: “ there’s no more
pride in that charming mouth, than there is folly
enough to relish my fine companions here.”
Our hero returned home more thoughtful than he
came, replying but at intervals to the raillery of those
with him, and then giving them pretty savage cuts.
He was more out of humour with his poverty than he
had ever felt, and not at all satisfied with the accom-
plishments which might have emboldened him to
forget it. However, in spite of his delicacies, he felt
it w'ould be impossible not to hazard rejection like the
rest. He only made up his mind to set about paying
his addresses in a different manner ; though how r it
w r as to be done he could not very well see. His first
impulse was to go to her and state the plain case at
once ; to say how charming she was, and how poor
her lover, and that nevertheless he did not care two-
pence for her riches, if she would but believe him.
The only delight of riches would be to share them
with her. “ But then,” said he, “ how is she to take
my word for that ?”
On arriving at home he found his sister prepared
to tell him what he had found out for himself, —that
Pomona was not proud. Unfortunately, she added,
that the heiress had acquired a horror of younger
brothers. “ Ay,” thought he, “there it is. I shall
not get her, precisely because I have at once the
greatest need of her money, and the greatest contempt
for it. Alas, yet not so ! I have not contempt for any
thing that belongs to her, even her money. How
heartily could I accept it from her, if she knew r me,
and if she is as generous as I take her to be ! How
delightful would it be to plant, to build, to indulge
a thousand expenses in her company ! O those
rascals of rich men, without sense or taste, that are
now going about, spending their money as they please,
and buying my jewels and my cabinets, that I thought
to be making her presents of. I could tear my hair
to think of it.”
It happened luckily or unluckily for our hero, that
he w r as the best amateur actor that had ever appeared.
Betterton could not perform Hamlet better, nor Lacy
a friar.


He disguised himself, and contrived to get hired
in his lady’s household as a footman. It was a diffi-
cult matter, all the other servants having been there
since she was a child, and just grown old enough to
escape the passion common to all who saw her.
They loved her like a daughter of their own, and
were indignant at the trouble her lovers gave her.
Vertumnus, however, made out his case so well, that
they admitted him. For a time all went on smoothly.
Yes : for three or four weeks he performed admira-
bly, confining himself to the mere footman. Nothing
could exceed the air of indifferent zeal with which he
waited at table. He was respectful, he was attentive,
even officious; but still as to a footman’s mistress,
not as to a lover’s. He looked in her face, as if he
did not want to kiss her : said “ yes ma’am” and “ no
ma’am” like any other servant ; and consented, not
without many pangs to his vanity, to wear proper
footman’s clothes: namely, such as did not fit him.
He even contrived, after a violent effort, to suppress
all appearance of emotion, when he doubled up fhe
steps of her chariot, after seeing the finest foot and
ancle in the world. In his haste to subdue this
emotion, he was one day nigh betraying himself. He
forgot his part so far, as to clap the door to with more
vehemence than usual. His mistress started and gave
a cry. He thought he had shut her hand in, and
opening the door again with more vehemence, and as
pale as death, exclaimed, “ God of Heaven ! What
have I done to her !”
“ Nothing, James,” —said the lady smi’ing ; “ only
another time you need not be in quite such a hurry.”
She was surprised at the turn of his words, and at a
certain air which she observed for the first time, but
the experience which might have enabled her to de-
tect him, led her, by a reasonable vanity, to think
that love had exalted her footman’s manners. This
made her observe him with some interest afterwards,
and notice how good-looking he was, and that his
shape was better than his clothes: but he continued
to act his part so well, that she suspected nothing
further. She only resolved, if he gave any more
evidences of being in love, to dispatch him after his
betters.
By degrees, our hero’s nature became too much for
his art. He behaved so well among his fellow-ser-
vants, that they all took a liking to him. Now,
when we please others, and they show it, we wish to
please them more : and it turned out, that James
could play on the viol de gamba. He played so well
that his mistress must needs enquire “ what musician
they had in the house.” “ James, madam.” A week
or two after, somebody was reading a play, and mak-
ing them all die with laughter.—“ Who is reading so
well there, and making you all a parcel of mad-
caps'?”—“ It’s only James, madam.”—“ I have a pro-
digious footman,” thought Pomona. Another day,
my lady’s maid came up all in tears to do something
for her mistress, and could hardly speak, “ What’s
the matter, Lucy ?” “Oh James, madam ! Her
lady blushed a-little, and was going to be angry.
“ I hope he has not been uncivil.”
“Oh no ? ma’am, only I could not bear his being
turned out o’doors !
“ Turned out of doors !”
“ Yes, ma’am ; and their being so cruel as to singe
his white head.”
“ Singe his white head ! Surely the girl’s head is
turned. What is it, poor soul?”
“Oh nothing, ma’am. Only the old king in the
play, as your ladyship knows. They turn him out
o’doors, and singe his white head ; and Mr. James
did it so natural like, that he made us all of a drown
of tears. T’other day he called me his Ophelia, and
was so angry with me, I could have died.”—“ This
man is no footman,” said the lady. She sent for
him up stairs, and the butler with him. “ Pray, sir,
may I beg the favour of knowing who you are'?’*
The abruptness of this question totally confounded
our hero.
“ For God’s sake, do not think it worth your while
to be angry with me, and I will tell you all.”
“ Worth my while, sir ! I know not what you
mean by its being worth my while,” cried our he-
roine, w r ho really felt more angry than she wished to
be : “ but when an impostor comes into the house, it
is natural to wish to be on one’s guard against him.”
“ Impostor, madam !” said he, reddening in his
turn, and rising w ith an air of dignity. “ It is true,”
he added, in a humbler tone,—“lam not exactly
w r hat I seem to be ; but lam a younger brother of a
good family, and ”
“ A younger brother!” exclaimed Pomona, turn-
ing aw r ay with a look of despair.
“Oh those d——d words !” thought Vertumnus ;
“ they have undone me. 1 must go ; and yet it is
hard.”
“I go madam,” said he in a hurry :—“ believe me
in only this, that I shall give you no unbecoming
disturbance ; and I must vindicate myself so far as
to say, that I did not come into this house for what
you suppose.” Then giving her a look of inexpres-
sible tenderness and respect, and retiring as he said it,
with a low bow, he added, “ May neither imposture
nor unhappiness ever come near you.”
Pomona could not help thinking of the strange
footman she had had. “He did not come into the
house for w f hat I supposed.” She did not know
whether to be pleased or not at this phrase. What did
he mean by it ? What did lie think she supposed ?
Upon the whole, she found her mind occupied with a
man a little too much, and proceeded to busy herself
with her orchard.
There was now more caution observed in admit-
ting new servants into the house ; yet a new gar-
dener’s assistant came, who behaved like a reasonable
man for two months. He then passionately exclaimed
one morning, as Pomona was rewarding him for
some roses, “ I cannot bear it ! —and turned out to
be our hero, who w r as obliged to decamp. My lady
became more cautious than ever, and w 7 ould speak to
all the new servants herself. One day a very re-
markable thing occurred. A w'hole side of the green
house was smashed to pieces. The glazier was sent
for, not without suspicion of being the perpetrator ,
and the man’s w r ay of behaving strengthened it, for
he stood looking about him, and handling the glass
to no purpose. His assistant did all the work, and
yet somehow did not seem to get on with it. The
truth was, the fellow was innocent and yet not so, for
he had brought our hero with him as a journeyman.
Pomona, watching narrowly, discovered the secret,
but for reasons best known to herself, pretended
otherwise, and the men were to come again the
next day.
The same evening my lady’s maid’s cousin’s hus-
band’s aunt came to see her, —a free jolly maternal
old dame, who took the liberty of kissing the mis


tress of the house, and thanking her for all favours.
Pomona had never received such a long kiss. “ Ex-
cuse,” cried the housewife, “ an old body, who has
had daughters and grand-daughters, aye, and three
husbands to boot, God rest their souls: but dinner
always makes me bold, —old and bold as we say in
Gloucestershire, —old and bold ; and her ladyship’s
sweet face is like an angel’s in heaven.” All this
was said in a voice at once loud and trembling, as if
the natural jollity of the old lady was counteracted
by her years.
Pomona felt a little confused at this liberty of
speech ; but her goodnature was always uppermost,
and she respected the privileges of age. So, with a
blushing face, not well knowing what to say, she
mentioned something about the old lady’s three hus-
bands, and said she hardly knew whether to pity her
most for losing so many friends, or to congratulate
the gentlemen on so cheerful a companion. The old
lady’s breath seemed to be taken away with the ele-
gance of the compliment •. for she stood looking and
saying not a word. At last she made signs of being
a little deaf, and Betty repeated, as well as she could,
what her mistress had said. “ She is an angel for
certain,” cried the gossip, and kissed her again.
Then perceiving that Pomona was prepared to avoid a
repetition of this freedom, she said, “But lord ! why
doesn’t her sweet ladyship marry herself, and make
somebody’s life a heaven upon earth ? They tell me
she is frightened at the cavaliers and the money-hun-
ters, and all that ; but God-a-mercy, must there be
no honest man that’s poor ? and may’nt the dear
sweet soul be the jewel of some one’s eye, because she
has money in her pocket V'
Pomona, who had entertained some such reflections
as these herself, hardly knew what to answer ; but
she laughed, and made some pretty speech.
“ Ay, ay,” resumed the old woman, “ well, there’s
no knowing. (Here she heaved a great sigh). And
so my lady is mighty curious in plants and apples
they tell me, and quite a gardener, Lord love her,
and rears me cart loads of peaches. Why, her face
is a peach, or I should like to know what is. But it
didn’t come of itself neither. No, no, for that mat-
ter, there were peaches before it; and Eve didn’t
live alone, I warrant me, or we should have had no
peaches now, for all her gardening. Well, well, my
sweet young lady, don’t blush and be angry, for I am
but a poor foolish old body, you know', old enough
to be your grandmother ; but I can’t help thinking
it a pity, that’s the truth on’t. Oh dear ! Well ;
gentlefolks will have their figaries, but it was very
different in my time, you know ; and lord ! now to
speak the plain scripter truth ; what would the world
come to, and where would her sweet ladyship be her-
self, I should like to know, if her owm mother that's
now an angel in heaven had refused to keep company
with her ladyship’s father, because she brought him a
good estate, and made him the happiest man on God’s
yearth.”
The real love that existed between Pomona’s father
and mother being thus brought to her recollection,
touched our heroine’s feelings ; and looking at the old
dame, with tears in her eyes, she begged her to stay
and take some tea, and she would see her again before
she went aw r ay. “ Ay, and that I will, and a thou-
sand thanks unto the bargain from one w’ho has been
-a mother herself, and can’t help crying to see my
ltd v in tears. I could kiss’em off, if I war n’t afraid
of being troublesome ; and so God bless her, and I’ll
make bold to make her my curtsey again before I go.”
The old body seemed really affected, and left the 0
room with more quietness than Pomona had looked
for. Betty meanwhile showing an eagerness to get
her away, which was a little remarkable. In less
than half an hour there was a knock at the parlour
door, and Pomona saying “ Come in,” the door was
held again by somebody for a few seconds, during
which there was a loud and apparently angry whisper
of voices. Our heroine, not without agitation, heard
the words “ no, no,” and “ yes” repeated with vehe-
mence, and then “ I tell you I must and will ; she
will forgive you, be assured, and me too, for she’ll
never see me again.” And at these words the door
was opened by a gallant-looking young man, who
closed it behind him, and advancing with alow bow,
spoke as follows •.
“ If you are alarmed, madam, which I confess you
reasonably may be, at this intrusion, I beseech you to
be perfectly certain, that you will never be so alarmed
again, nor indeed ever again set eyes on me, if so it
please you. You see before you, madam, that un-
fortunate younger brother (for I will not omit even
that title to your suspicion) who, seized with an
invincible passion as he one day beheld you from
your garden wall, has since run the chance of your
displeasure, by coming into the house under a variety
of pretences, and inasmuch as he has violated the
truth, has deserved it. But one truth he has not
violated, which is, that never man entertained a pas-
sion sincerer; and God is my witness, madam, how
foreign to my heart is that accursed love of money
(I beg your pardon, but I confess it agitates me in my
turn to speak of it,) which other people’s advances,
and your own modesty,have naturally induced you to
suspect in every person situated as I am. Forgive
me, madam, for every alarm I have caused you, this
last one above all. I could not deny to my love and
my repentance, the mingled bliss and torture of this
moment ; but as I am really and passionately a lover
of truth as well as of yourself, this is the last trouble
I shall give you, unless you are pleased to admit
what I confess I have very little hopes of; which is,
a respectful pressure of my suit in future. Pardon
me even these w r ords, if they displease you. lou
have nothing to do but to bid me —leave you ; and
when he quits this apartment, Harry Vernon troubles
you no more.”
A silence ensued for the space of a few r seconds.
The gentleman w r as very pale ; so w r as the lady. At
length she said, in a very under tone, “ This surprise,
sir 1 was not sensible—l mean, I perceived —
Sure, sir, it is not Mr. Vernon, the brother of my
cousin’s friend, to whom I am speaking'?”
“ The same, madam.”
“ And why not at once, sir,—l mean—that is to
sa y —Forgive me, sir, if circumstances conspire to
agitate me a little, and to throw me in doubt what I
ought to say. I wish to say what is becoming, and
to retain your respect.” And the lady trembled as
she said it.
“ My respect, madam, was never profounder than
it is at the present moment, even though I dare begin
to hope that you will not think it disrespectful on my
part to adore you. If I might but hope, that months
or years of service ”
“ Be seated, sir, I beg.; —I am very forgetful. I
am an orphan, Mr. Vernon, and you must make


allowances as a gentleman (here her voice became a
little louder) for any thing in which I may seem to
forget, either what is due to you or to myself.”
The gentleman had not taken a chair, but at the
end of this speech, he approached the lady, and led
her to her own seat with an air full of reverence.
“ Ah, madam,” said he, “ if you could but fancy
you had known me these five years, you would at
least give me credit for enough truth, and I hope
enough tenderness and respectfulness of heart (for
they all go together) to be certain of the feelings I
enteitain towards your sex in general, much more
towards one, whose nature strikes me with such
a gravity of admiration at this moment, that praise
even falters on my tongue. Could I dare hope that
you meant to say any thing more kind to me than
common expression of good wishes, I would dare to
say that the sweet truth of your nature not only war-
rants your doing so, but makes it a part of its hu-
manity.”
“Will you tell me, Mr. Vernon, what induced
you to say so decidedly to my servant (for I heard it
at the door) that you were sure I should never see
you again.”
“ Yes, madam, I will : and nevertheless, I feel all
the force of your inquiry. It was the last little in-
stinctive stratagem that love induced me to play,
even when I was going to put on the whole force of
my character and my love of truth ! for I did in-
deed believe that you would discard me, though I
was not sure of it as I pretended.”
ihere sir, said, Pomona, colouring in all the
beauty of joy and love, “ there is my hand. I give
it to the lover of truth; but truth no less forces me
to acknowledge, that my heart had not been unshaken
by some former occurrences,”
Charming and admirable creature !” cried our
hero, after he had recovered from the kiss which he
gave her. But here we leave them to themselves.
Our heroine confessed, that from what she now
knew of her feelings, she must have been inclined to
look with compassion on him before ; but added,
that she never could have been sure she loved him,
much less had the courage to tell him so, till she had
known him in his own candid shape.”
And this, and no other, is the true story of Ver-
tumnus and Pomona.
Varieties.
Sufferings of Actors.— The following affecting state-
ment, from the Memoirs of Grimaldi, depicts, in strongest
language, the wretchedness of many of those who, even when
then- own heart is sad, are employed to dissipate all serious
thought from the minds of their fellow-creatures “In this
piece (the ‘ Orphan of Peru’), which came out on the 23rd of
larch, lows, Grimaldi played a prominent character: but
even during the earlier nights of its very successful represen-
ation, he could scarcely struggle through his part. His frame
was weah and debilitated, his joints stiff, and his muscles re-
laxed; every effort he made was followed by cramps and
E\ S ™° f • he most agonizing nature. Men were obliged to
P h Wai i! ng at the Slde - Scenes > wh <> caught him in their
while nf h h n he i St r ag^ red / rom the sta S e ’ and supported him :
while others chafed his limbs, which was obliged to be inces-
santly done until he was called for the next scfne, or he could
were althev P r red ? Very time he came off > his sinews
ere gathered up into huge knots by the cramps that followed
anVeTen 1 Z; be Educed by "violent r“,
and even that frequently failed to produce the desired effect.
I he spectators who were convulsed with laughter while he was
ZiucLTtfj h “ le , th< ? u^ht that while their applause was re-
unding tlnough the house, he was suffering the most excru-
ciating and horrible pains. Bat so it was, until the twenty-
fourth night of the piece, when h- had no alternative, in con-
sequence of his intense sufferings, but to throw up the part.
On the preceding night, although every possible remedy was
tried, he could scarcely drag himself through the piece ; and
on this occasion it was only with the most extreme difficulty,
and by extraordinary physical exertion and agony, that he
could conclude the performance, when he was carried to his
dressing-room exhausted and powerless. Here, when his
bodily anguish had in some degree subsided, he began to re-
flect painfully and seriously on his sad condition. And when
he remembered how long this illness had been hovering about
him, how gradually it had crept over his frame and subdued
his energies, with what obstinacy it had baffled the skill of the
most eminent professors, and how utterly his powers had
wasted away beneath it, he came to the painful conviction
that his professional existence was over. Suffering from this
terrible certainty a degree of mental anguish to which all his
bodily sufferings were as nothing, he covered his face with his
hands and wept like a child. The next morning he sent
word to the theatre that he was disabled by illness from
performing.’'
Early Rising.— “ Why on earth don’t you get up earlier,
my son ! (said an anxious father to his sluggard son) don’t
you see the flowers even spring out of their beds at the early
dawn?” ” Yes father,” (said the boy)” I see they do, and 1
would do the same, if I had as dirty a bed as they have.”
The Force of Conscience.— While in Bengal (says Mr.
borbes) my society was assiduously cultivated by one of the
most enlightened natives. He was a person of profound parts,
and most acute discernment. We became deeply attached to
each other, and daily spent hours together in the investigation
of moral and physical science. Years after our acquaintance
had commenced, I received from England the present of an
elegant microscope. This, upon his next visit, I exhibited to
the Brahmin, and directed his attention to the animalculae in
water. He made no observation, and I saw him not for some
time. After months of absence, he called and said he was
desirous of purchasing the microscope. ”Itis a present from
a friend, and it is impossible for me to sell it.” “ That friend’s
object was to afford you gratification. Were Ito give you ten
or twenty times its value, yourfriend’s object would be equally
obtained.” -‘You place the matter in a new, and perhaps a
correct point of light. Pay me rupees, and the micros-
cope is yours.” He handed me the money, and I gave him
the instrument; seizing it eagerly, he at once dashed it upon
the floor, and broke it into a thousand pieces. “ Why this
frantic act?”—l exclaimed—“it was for the promotion of
science I believed you had made the purchase.” “No 1 lam
taught by the religion to which I firmly adhere, that he who
destroys life will be eternally punished. I have, however,
learned by that instrument, that I cannot either breathe or
drink without destroying myriads. My knowledge and my
faith are therefore at variance, and \ am made miserable during
existence. I bid you farewell, and farewell for ever!” He
eft me, and 1 again never saw my conscientious friend.—
Oriental Memoirs.
B °°^ s IN THE Middle Ages.-A Countess of Anjou, in
the 15th century, paid for one book 200 sheep, five quarters of
wheat, and the same quantity of rye and millet; and in early
times the loan of a book was considered to be an affair of such
importance, that, in 1299, the Bishop of Winchester, on bor-
rowing a Bible from a convent in that city, was obliged to give
a bond for its restoration, drawn up in the most solemn man-
ner; and Louis XL, in 1471, was compelled to deposit a large
quantity of plate, and to get some of his nobles to join with
mm in a bond, before he could procure the loan of one.
Preservation of Flowers.—A fair correspondent writes
to the Dumfries Courier in the following terms: —“ Recently I
happened to gather a beautiful pansey, and when tired of ad-
miring it, tossed the toy aside, which partly by accident fell
into a box full of soap suds. The pansey had neither joint
nor root, and you may judge of my surprise when, at the end
of a day or two, I found it growing. From this time forward
I watched it narrowly, and now find it, after the lapse of a
fortnight, a goodly plant with several buds on it. Thinking
water would produce the same effect, 1 placed a newly cropped
pansey in an element, which, pure in itself, is the medium of
purity to everything else ; but they withered and died on so
spare a diet. By way of confirming the first experiment. 1
nave since placed a strip of rose tree and pink in suds, and
both are flourishing in great vigour in my dressing-room,
Should tins accidental discovery prove useful to florists, it will
anoid sincere pleasure to your correspondent.”


The Moralist.
WEAKNESS.
Vain and inconstant as thou art, O child of imperfection ! how
canst thou but be weak? is not inconstancy connected with
frailty ? can there be vanity without infirmity ? avoid the
danger of the one, and thou shalt escape the mischiefs of the
other.
Wherein art thou most weak? in that wherein thouseernest
most strong; in that wherein thou most gloriest: even in
possessing the things which thou hast; in using the good that
is about thee.
Are not thy desires also frail ? or knowest thou even what it
is thou wouldst wish ? when thou hast obtained what most thou
souo-htest after, behold itcontenteth thee not.
Wherefore loseth the pleasure that is before thee its relish ?
and why appearetli that which is yet to come the sweeter?
because thou art wearied with the good of this, because thou
knowest not the evil of that which is not with thee. Know
that to be content is to be happy.
Couldst thou choose for thyself, would thy Creator lay
before thee all that thine heart could ask for? would happi-
ness then remain with thee ? or would joy dwell always in thy
Alas! thy weakness forbiddeth it; thy infirmity declareth
against it, Variety is to thee in the place of pleasure ; but that
which permanently delighteth must be permanent.
When it is gone thou, repentest the loss of it, though
while it was with thee, thou despisest it.
That which succeedeth it, hath no nioie pleasure for thee ;
and thou afterwards quarrellest with thyself for preferring it;
behold the only circumstance in which thou errest not!
Is there any thing in which thy weakness appeareth more
tlwin in desiring things ? it is in the possessing, and m the
using them.
Good things cease to be good in our enjoyment of them.
What nature meant for pure sweets, are sources of bitterness
to us ; from our delights arise pain, from our joys, sorrow.
Be moderate in the enjoyment, and it shall remain in thy
possession; let thy joy be founded on reason ; and to its end
shall sorrow be a stranger. , ,
The delights of love are ushered in by sighs, and they ter-
minate in languishment and dejection.
The object thou burnest for, nauseates with satiety : and no
sooner hast thou possessed it, but thou art weary of its pre-
joi'n esteem to thy admiration, unite friendship with thy
love • so shalt thou find in the end, content so absolute, that
it surpassed raptures; tranquillity more worth than ecstacy.
God hath given thee no good without its admixture of evil ;
but he hath given thee also the means of throwing oft the
evil from it. . . ,
As joy is not without the alloy of pain, so neither is sorrow
without its portion of pleasure. Joy and grief, though unlike,
are united. Our own choice only can give them us entire.
Melancholy itself often giveth delight, and the extremity of
jov is mingled with tears. ,
The best things in the hands of a fool may be turned to his
destruction; and out of the worst the wise will find the means
So blended is weakness in thy nature, O man ! that thou
hast not strength either to be good, or to be evil entirely.
Rejoice that thou canst not excel in evil, and let the good that
is within thy reach content thee.
The virtues are allotted to various stations. Seek not after
impossibilities, nor grieve that thou canst never possess them.
MORAL MAXIMS.
alphabetically arranged.
No. 38.
Consideration is due to all things.
Consider both what is fit, and when it is fit, to speak.
Consider not pleasures as they come, but as they go.
Consider well before you tie a knot you can never undo.
Constancy and temperance strengthen virtue.
Constant application overcomes the greatest difficulties.
Constant occupation prevents temptation.
Constant serenity of mind can only be obtained by a clear
conscience. , , . ,
Consult not with a fool, for he can neither give nor keep
Contemn not rich acquaintance, nor flatter rich Iriends.
Contemplate the works of God, and thou wilt learn tlnne
own insignificance.
Contempt is the best return for scurrility.
Select Poetry.
SONNETS.
MORNING : BY T. W. A.
Throned on a radiant cloud of golden light,
The rosy-fingered morn rides up the sky,
Glittering with gems insufferably bright,
'Mid the pale glory of her forehead high.
Over her shining car the fairy hours,
With silver wings, in airy circles fly,
Bidding the fragrant clouds go forth and sigh
Their waking music to the sleeping flowers.
Perched in the sleepy coverts of their leafy bowers,
The shrill-voiced minstrels sing their matin lay,
And dewdrops, coloured by the sun’s pure ray.
Fall from the waving boughs in pearly showers.
The streamlet wakes anew his mellow song,
As ’mid the daisied banks he glides along.
evening: by t. r. taylor.
It is a melancholy joy, at eve,
To sit upon some woodland seat, and list
The moaning of the brooklet, softly kiss’d
By evening winds ; and through the boughs that weave
Their branches overhead, and gently heave
Their flowers and leaves athwart the deep blue sky,
To watch the pale moon as she travels by.
Ah ! sad remembrancer ! —she bids us grieve
For those erewhile on whom she shone ; —she shines
As brightly now as then—upon their graves.
For them no more this bower its cool shade twines,
The tall dark grass in cheerless whisper waves,
Where they are sleeping on their couch of clay :
A few more waning moons, and we shall be as they.
t
MIDNIGHT : BY T. W. A.
’Tis night’s most calm, most melancholy hour,
And silence broods o’er all the sleeping vale,
Save when a voice from yonder ivied tower
Proclaims to sighing winds Time’s passing tale.
The stars are out in all their loveliness ;
And gently breathes the violet-scented gale ;
While from the hawthorn shade is heard the wail
Of the love night-bird. Now, with sable dress,
The silent heavens are robed, and dark clouds press
Around the silvery moon, and now she flings
Her chastened light to earth, while zephyrs’ wings
Scatter a thousand sweets the flowers to bless,
And tiny elves, that shun the garish day,
In forest haunts their fairy music play.
[FROM LORENZO DE MEDICJ : TRANSLATED FROM ROSCOE.]
Ah pearly drops, that pouring from these eyes,
Spoke the dissolving cloud of soft desire !
What time cold sorrow chill’d the genial fire,
»• Struck the fair urns and bade the waters rise.”
Soft down those cheeks where native crimson vies
Witn ivory whiteness, see the crystals throng;
As some clear river winds its stream along
Parting the flowers of pale and purple dyes,
Whilst love, rejoicing in the amorous shower,
Stands like some bird that after sultry heats
Enjoys the drops, and shades his glittering wings;
Then grasps his bolt, and, conscious of Ins power,
’ Midst these bright orbs assumes his wonted seat,
And through the lucid shower his lightning flings.
THE SONNET : BY WORDSWORTH.
Scorn not the Sonnet; Critic, you have frowned,
Mindless of its just honours-; with this Key
Sliakspeare unlocked his heart; the melody
Of this small Lute gave ease to Petrarch’s wound ;
A thousand times this Pipe did Tasso sound ;
Camoens soothed with it an exile’s grief;
The Sonnet glittered a gay myrtle leaf
Amid the cypress with which Dante crowned
His visionary brow : a glow-worm I,amp,
It cheered mild Spenser, called from Faery-land
To struggle through dark ways ; and when a damp
Fell round the path of Milton, in his hand
The Thing became a Trumpet, whence he blew
Soul-animating strains—alas, too few!


Jzottce to Correspontrcnis.
Communications have been received from 8., R. K. E., and H.
In reply to H.’s proposal , we observe that a well-digested epitome
would certainly be desirable and very suitable for insertion in
our pages. We should wish, however, to see a sample page.
®o our Subscribers.
The Subscribers to the Colonial Literary Journal are respect-
fully informed, that, the present low rate of subscription being
found inadequate for the defraying of the actual necessary
expenses of the publication of the work, it is the intention of the
Publishers, at the end of the present quarter, to make a slight
addition to the amount of the quarterly subscription ; which
tvill, they trust, enable them still to continue their endeavours to
the satisfaction, and for the gratification, of the numerous body
of their friends and supporters. The rate of quarterly sub-
scription, therefore, after the present quarter, will be—to Sub-
scribers in Sydney, 4s. 6d.—to Country Subscribers, ss.
This notice is given thus early to allow those Subscribers, who do
not wish to continue their subscription, to send a written notice
to that effect to the Office, accompanied with the amount of
arrears, before the 3ls£ instant.
CATALLACTICS.
NITROGENOUS FORMATIONS.
We cannot suppose that a plant could attain maturity
even in the richest vegetable mould, Avithout the pre-
sence of matter containing nitrogen, since Ave know'
that nitrogen exists in every part of the vegetable
structure. Ihe first and most important question to
be solved, therefore, is: lloav and in Avhat form does
nature furnish nitrogen to vegetable albumen, and
gluten, to fruits and seeds ?
This question is susceptible of a very simple so-
lution.
Plants, as Ave knoAv, groiv perfectly Avell in pure
charcoal, if supplied at the same time with rain water.
Rain water can contain nitrogen, only in tivo forms,
either as dissolved atmospheric air, or as ammonia,
which consists of this element and hydrogen. Now,
the nitrogen of the air cannot be made to enter into
combination Avßh any element except oxygen, even
by the employment of the most poAverful chemical
means. We haA'e not the slightest reason for believ-
ing that the nitrogen of the atmosphere takes part in
the processes of assimilation of plants and animals ;
on the contrary, we knoiv that many plants emit the
nitrogen Avhich is absorbed by their roots either in
the gaseous form, or in solution in Avater. But there
aieon the other hand numerous facts, showing, that
t le formation in plants of substances containing
nitrogen, such as gluten, takes place in proportion to
the quantity of this element Avhich is conveyed to
their roots in the state of ammonia, derived from the
putrefaction of animal matter.
Ammonia, too, is capable of undergoing such a
multitude of transformations, Avhen in contact with
other bodies, that in this respect it is not inferior to
water which possesses the same property in an emi-
nent degree. It possesses properties which do not
hnd in any other compound of nitrogen : when pure,
it is extremely soluble in water ; it forms soluble
compounds with all the acids; and when in contact
with certain other substances, it completely resigns
its character as an alkali, and is capable of assuming
the most various and opposite forms.
Let us picture to ourselves the condition of a well
cultured farm, so large as to be independent of as-
sistance from other quarters. On this extent of land
here is a certain quantity of nitrogen contained both
m the corn and fruit which it produces, and in the
men and animals Avhich feed upon them, and also in
their excrements. We shall suppose this quantity to
be known. The land is cultivated without the impor-
tation of any foreign substance containing nitrogen.
Now, the products of this farm must be exchanged
every year for money, and other necessaries of life
for bodies, therefore, which contain no nitrogen. A
certain proportion of nitrogen is exported with corn
and cattle ; and this exportation takes place every
year, without the smallest compensation ; yet after a
given number of years, the quantity of nitrogen will
be found to have increased. Whence, we may ask,
comes this increase of nitrogen? The nitrogen in
the excrements cannot reproduce itself, and the earth
cannot yield it. Plants, and consequently animals,
must, therefore, derive their nitrogen from the at-
mosphere.
The last products of the decay and putrefaction of
animal bodies present themselves in two different
forms. They are in the form of a combination of
hydrogen and nitrogen—ammonia—in the tempe-
rate and cold climates, and in that of a compound
containing oxygen —nitric acid—in the tropics and
hot climates. The formation of the latter is preceded
by the production of the first. Ammonia is the last
product of the putrefaction of animal bodies ; nitric
acid is the product of the transformation of ammonia.
A generation of a thousand million men is renewed
every thirty years : thousands of millions of animals
cease to live, and are reproduced in a much shorter
period. Where is the nitrogen which they contained
during life? There is no question which can be
answered with more positive certainty. All animal
bodies during their decay yield the nitrogen which
they contain to the atmosphere, in the form of am-
monia. Even in the bodies buried sixty feet under
ground in the church yard of the Eglise des Innocens,
at Paris, all the nitrogen contained in the adipocire
was in the state of ammonia. Ammonia is the sim-
plest of all the compounds of nitrogen ; and hydrogen
is the element for which nitrogen possesses the most
powerful affinity.
The nitrogen of putrified animals is contained in
the atmosphere as ammonia.
Ammonia in its gaseous form, as well as all its
volatile compounds, is of extreme solubility in water.
Ammonia therefore cannot remain long in the atmos-
phere, as every shower of rain must condense it, and
convey it to the surface of the earth. Hence, also,
rain water must at all times contain ammonia, though
not always in equal quantity. It must be greater in
summer than in spring or in winter, because the
intervals of time between the shoAvers are in summer
greater ; and when several Avet days occur, the rain
of the first must contain more of it than that of the
second. The rain of a thunderstorm, after a long-
protracted drought, ought for this reason to contain
the greatest quantity Avhich is conveyed to the earth
at one time.
The quantity of nitrogen contained in a cubic foot
of air is certainly extremely small, but, notwith-
standing this, the sum of the quantities of nitrogen
from thousands and millions of dead animals is more
than sufficient to supply all those living at one time
Avith this element.
It is Avorthy of observation that the ammonia con-
tained in rain and snow Avater possesses an offensive
smell of perspiration and animal excrements,—a fact
Avhich leaves no doubt respecting its origin.
The ammonia which is removed from the atmos


phere by rain and other causes, is as constantly re-
placed by the putrefaction of animal and vegetable
matters. A certain portion of that which falls with
the rain evaporates again with the water, but another
portion is, we suppose, taken up by the roots of plants,
and entering into new combinations in the different
organs of assimilation, produces albumen, gluten,
quinine, morphia, cyanogen, and a number of other j
compounds containing nitrogen. The chemical cha- i
racters of ammonia render it capable of entering into |
such combinations, and of undergoing numerous ,
transformations.
We have now only to consider whether it really is |
taken up in the form of ammonia by the roots of j
plants, and in that form applied by their organs to the j
production of the azotised matters contained in them. j
In the manufactories of beet-root sugar, many j
thousand cubic feet of juice are daily purified with j
lime, in order to free it from vegetable albumen and j
gluten, and it is afterwards evaporated for crystal- i
lisation. Every person who has entered such a :
manufactory must have been astonished at the great j
quantity of ammonia which is volatilised along with
the steam.
The products of the distillation of flow-ers, herbs,
and roots, with water, and all extracts of plants made
for medicinal purposes, contain ammonia. The un-
ripe, transparent, and gelatinous pulp of the almond
and peach, emit much ammonia when treated with
alkalies. (Robiquet.) The juice of the fresh tobacco
leaf contains ammoniacal salts. The w r ater which
exudes from a cut vine, when evaporated with a few
drops of muriatic acid, also yields a gummy deli-
quescent mass, which evolves much ammonia on the
addition of lime. Ammonia exists in every part of
plants, in the roots (as in beet-root,) in the stem (of
the maple tree,) and in all blossoms and fruit in an
unripe condition.
The employment of animal manure in the cultiva-
tion of grain, and the vegetables w'hich serve for
fodder to cattle, is the most convincing proof that the
nitrogen of vegetables is derived from ammonia. The
quantity of gluten in wheat, rye, and barley, is very
different; these kinds of grain also, even when ripe,
contain this compound of nitrogen in very different
proportions.
An increase of animal manure gives rise not only
to an increase in the number of seeds, but also to a
most remarkable difference in the proportion of the
substances containing nitrogen, such as the gluten
which they contain.
Animal manure, in as far as regards the assi-
milation of nitrogen, acts only by the formation of
ammonia.
The coast of Peru is rendered fertile by means ot
a manure called Guano , which is collected fiom
several islands in the South Seas. It is sufficient to
add a small quantity of guano to a soil, which con-
sists only of sand and clay, in order to procure the
richest crop of maize. The soil itself does not con-
tain the smallest particle of organic matter, and the
manure employed is formed only of urate , phosphate ,
oxalate, and carbonate of ammonia, together with a
few earthy salts.
It is ammonia which yields nitrogen to the veget-
able albumen, the principal constituent of plants;
and it must be ammonia which forms the red and
blue colouring matters of flowers. Nitrogen is not
presented to wild plants in any other form capable of
assimilation. Ammonia, by its transformation fur-
nishes nitric acid to the tobacco plant, sun-flower,
chenopodium , and borago officinalis , when they grow
in a soil completely free from nitre. Nitrates are
necessary constituents of these plants, which thrive
only when ammonia is present in large quantity, and
when they are also subject to the influence of the
direct rays of the sun, an influence necessary to effect
the disengagement within their stem and leaves' of
the oxygen, which shall unite with the ammonia to
form nitric acid.
The quantity of food which animals take for their
nourishment, diminishes or increases in the same
proportion as it contains more or less of the substances
containing nitrogen. A horse may be kept alive by
feeding it with potatoes, -which contain a very small
quantity of nitrogen ; but life thus supported is a
gradual starvation ; the animal increases neither in
size nor strength, and sinks under every exertion.
The quantity of rice wdiich an Indian eats astonishes
the European; but the fact that rice contains less
nitrogen than any other kind of grain at once explains
the circumstance.
A heap of manure lying unemployed upon a far-
mer’s land would serve him no more than his neigh-
bours. The nitrogen in it would escape as carbonate
of ammonia into the atmosphere, and a mere carbo-
naceous residue of decayed plants would after some
years, be found in its place.
But it is much less the quantity of ammonia,
yielded to a soil by animal excrements, than the form
in which it is presented by them that causes their
great influence on its fertility. Wild plants obtain
more nitrogen from the atmosphere in the form of
ammonia than they require for their growth, for the
water which evaporates through their leaves and
blossoms, emits, after some time, a putrid smell, a
peculiarity possessed only by such bodies as contain
nitrogen. Cultivated plants receive the same quantity
of nitrogen from the atmosphere as trees, shrubs , and
other wild plants ; but this is not sufficient for the pur-
poses of agriculture. Agriculture differs essentially
from the cultivation of forests , inasmuch as its prin-
cipal object consists in the production of nitrogen under
any form capable of assimilation ; whilst the object of
forest culture is confined principally to the production
of carbon. All the various means of culture are
subservient to these two main purposes. A part only
of the carbonate of ammonia which is conveyed by
rain to the soil is received by plants, because a certain
quantity of it is volatilised with the vapour of water ;
only that portion of it can be assimilated which sinks
deeply into the soil, or which is conveyed directly to
the leaves by dew, or is absorbed from the air along
with the caibonic acid.
Liquid animal excrements, such as the urine with
which the solid excrements are impregnated, contain
the greatest part of their ammonia in the state of
salts, in a form, therefore, in which it has completely
lost its volatility ; when presented in this condition,
not the smallest portion of the ammonia is lost to the
plants; it is all dissolved by water, and imbibed by
their roots. ,
The evident influence of gypsum upon the growtn
of grasses—the striking fertility and luxuriance of a
meadow upon which it is strewed—depends only upon
its fixing in the soil the ammonia of the atmosphere,
! which would otherwise be volatilised, with the water
I which evaporates.


The carbonate of ammonia contained in rain-water
is decomposed by gypsum, in precisely the same
manner as in the manufacture of sal-ammoniac. So-
luble sulphate of ammonia and carbonate of lime are
formed ; and this salt of ammonia possessing no vola-
tility is consequently retained in the soil. All the
gypsum gradually disappears, but its action upon the
carbonate of ammonia continues as long as a trace of
it exists.
The action of gypsum or chloride of calcium really
consists in their giving a fixed condition to the
nitrogen —or ammonia which is brought into the
soil, and which is indispensable for the nutrition of
plants.
In order to form a conception of the effect of
gypsum, it may be sufficient to remark that llOlbs.
of burned gypsum fixes as much ammonia in the soil
as 6880 lbs. of horses’ urine would yield to it, even on
the supposition that all the nitrogen of the urea and
hippuric acid were absorbed by the plants without
the smallest loss, in the form of carbonate of am-
monia. If we admit with Boussingault that the
nitrogen in grass amounts to 1-100 of its weight,
then every pound of nitrogen w T hich we add increases
the produce of the meadow lOOlbs., and this in-
creased produce of lOOlbs. is effected by the aid of
a little more than 4lbs. of gypsum.
Water is absolutely necessary to effect the decom-
position of the gypsum, on account of its difficult
solubility (1 part of gypsum requires 400 parts of
water for solution), and also to assist in the absorp-
tion of the sulphate of ammonia by the plants : hence
it happens, that the influence of gypsum is not ob-
servable on dry fields and meadows. In such it
would be advisable to employ a salt of more easy
solubility, such as chloride of calcium.
The decomposition of gypsum by carbonate of am-
monia does not take place instantaneously ; on the
contrary, it proceeds very gradually ; and this ex-
plains why the action of the gypsum lasts for several
years.
The advantage of manuring fields with burned
clay, and the fertility of ferruginous soils, w r hich
have been considered as facts so incomprehensible,
may be explained in an equally simple manner.
The oxides of iron and alumina are distinguished
from all other metallic oxides by their power of
forming solid compounds with ammonia. The pre-
cipitates obtained by the addition of ammonia to salts
of alumina or iron are true salts, in w r hich the am-
monia is contained as a base. Minerals containing
alumina or oxide of iron also possess, in an eminent
degree, the remarkable property of attracting am-
monia from the atmosphere and of retaining it.
Soils therefore which contain oxides of iron, and
burned clay, must absorb ammonia, an action which
is favoured by their porous condition ; they further
prevent the escape of the ammonia once absorbed by
their chemical properties. Such soils, in fact, act
precisely as a mineral acid would do, if extensively
spread over their surface ; with this difference, that
the acid would penetrate the ground, enter into com-
bination with lime, alumina, and other bases, and
thus lose, in a few hours, its property of absorbing
ammonia from the atmosphere. The addition of
burned clay to soils has also a secondary influence ;
it renders the soil porous, and, therefore, more per-
meable to air and moisture.
The ammonia absorbed by the clay or ferruginous
oxides is separated by every shower of rain, and con-
veyed in solution to the soil.
Powdered charcoal possesses a similar action, but
surpasses all other substances in the power which it
possesses of condensing ammonia within its pores,
particularly when it has been previously heated to
redness. Charcoal absorbs 90 times its volume of
ammoniacal gas, which may be again separated by
simply moistening it with water. (De Saussure)
Decayed wood approaches very nearly to charcoal in
this power; decayed oak w r ood absorbs 72 times its
volume, after having been completely dried under the
air pump. We have here an easy and satisfactory
means of explaining still further the properties of
humus, or wood in a decaying state. It is not anly
a slow and constant source of carbonic acid, but it is
also a means by which the necessary nitrogen is con-
veyed to plants.
Thus, to sum up: —Carbonic acid, water, and am-
monia, contain the elements necessary for the support
of animals and vegetables. The same substances are
the ultimate products of the chemical processes of
decay and putrefaction. All the innumerable pro-
ducts of vitality resume, after death, the original
form from which they sprung. And thus death—
the complete dissolution of our existing generation
—becomes the source of life for a new one.
GAFFER GRAY.
THE EMIGRANTS’ GRAVE.
[For the Colonial Literary Journal.]
“ I am sad, O Carmour, nor small the cause of my woe.”
Ossian.
The evening was calm and beautiful. I had wan-
dered beyond my usual walk, pursuing my w’ay
through the thin and stunted brushwood that every-
where lay scattered among the trees, or rose in clus-
ters from between the shelving rocks, clothing the
uneven and irregular undulations to the beach in one
universal mantle of evergreen. Before me, in the
distance, lay the northern boundary of Port Jackson,
covered with trees extending to the water’s edge, that,
notwithstanding the preceding drought, continued to
preserve an appearance of fresh, and almost luxuriant
verdure, forming a pleasing and refreshing contrast
with the smooth unruffled waters of the bay, still
glistening in the last rays of the setting sun. A flock
of sheep grazing on an adjoining height, with the
shepherd and his dog, were all that appeared to in-
terrupt the universal solitude and tranquility that
prevailed around.
Continuing my walk slowly toward the beach, I
came suddenly upon a neat secluded valley, the foot
of which was bounded by a small inlet of the bay,
that now r for the first time fell within my view. The
gently rippling waves that washed its shore sent their
soft and mellow T cadence upon the evening breeze,
imparting an air of still and peaceful grandeur to the
scene, that stole insensibly on the heart, and left a
deep and solemn impress on the mind. At a short
distance from the shore, and almost in the centre of
the valley, rose a cluster of beech and elm trees,
whose neatness and regularity of appearance betrayed
their having once known the dominion, and been
under the protecting care of man. The brush and
under-wood had been cleared away for a considerable
space, and a kind of rude avenue was discernible
passing through the centre of the group. Surprise


and delight at the discovery of a spot possessing so
much picturesque and romantic beauty, induced me
to descend from where I stood, by one of the pre-
cipitous overhanging rocks that in every direction
surrounded the scene. On a nearer approach, my
attention was arrested by observing several mounds
of earth raised between the trees, partially overgrown
with grass and shrubs, and which probably had ex-
isted there in that state for many years. One of
these, smaller than the rest, and separated from them
by a space of some twenty yards, was situated under
the shade of a large birchen tree, a branch of which
extended lengthways with the mound, being cut so
as to form a seat of convenient height, by the side of
what I conceived to be a grave, and w'hich probably
contained all that w T as mortal of some wandering de-
parted exile. Regarding the sad spectacle w r ith an
air of deep melancholy, I fell into a state of musing,
from which I was only aroused by the near approach
of the shepherd and his flock, that, in returning home-
ward, had to pass close by the place w r here I stood.
I took occasion to inquire of him the meaning of what
I saw, and was answered—“ there six of the company
of a ship’s crew, drowned in the bay by the upsetting
of their boat, are interred.” The man cast a furtive
glance toward the west, as he continued, “ ’tis said
the spirits of the dead are known to visit the place on
every anniversary of their death, and it is now, as I
remember, nearly three years past, having myself
assisted at their interment;” saying which, he pro-
ceeded on his way up the margin of the valley, and
I was left again to myself.
The bright new moon had begun to shed her pale
lustre on surrounding objects, glancing her silvery
rays on the tranquil surface of the water, and shadow-
ing forth the tall faint outlines of the trees that stood
in deep and mournful silence by the resting-places of
the dead. I had gazed for some time upon the scene,
until overcome at length by the strong emotions which
the place inspired, I leant for support against the pro-
jecting branch of a tree, and continued to indulge
in my meditations. There was something in these
neglected graves, in these half-effaced monuments, in
these rudely-formed walks, in the tranquil look of
the scenery, that forcibly brought to my mind those
beautiful lines of Pope—perhaps the most beautiful
he ever wrote :
No friend’s complaint, no kind domestic tear,
Pleased thy pale ghost, or graced thy mournful bier;
.By foreign hands thy dying eyes were closed,
By foreign hands thy decent limbs composed ;
By foreign hands thy humble grave adorned,
By strangers honour’d, and by strangers mourn’d.
Under what privations and sorrows did not these
end their days ! —far from friends, from kindred, and
from home ! —lost, too, in a moment, without a warn-
ing—engulphed at once in the fickle, unruly element,
the true type of that deceitful and inconstant world
in which their lot for a time was cast. I felt deeply
as I pondered on these things. My mind was wrapped
in thought, and my soul groaned beneath a load of
anguish. My heart melted and was full, and I wept
in silence—in pity for the living—in sorrow for the
dead.
How long I might have remained in this abstrac-
tion, I cannot tell, had I not been aroused by the
sound of approaching footsteps in the direction of
the water. Looking up to ascertain the cause of this
unexpected interruption, I observed the figure of a!
man emerging from behind a rock, and slowly ad-
vancing toward the place where I stood. As retreat,
without, being observed, now became impossible. I
concealed myself carefully among the leaves and
foliage of the trees, resolved to watch assiduously the
movements of the unwelcome intruder. As soon as
he had fairly approached the large birchen tree
already mentioned, he placed his hat beside him on
the seat, and kneeling reverentially on the ground,
remained for a short time in that posture, apparently
engaged in deep and intense devotion. He then rose
to his feet, and clearing away the moss and rubbish
from a portion of the tree, proceeded to trace care-
fully with his finger on the surface, as if following
the characters of an inscription. Having spent some
time in this employment, he once more knelt upon
the ground, with his face toward the tree, and raising
his voice in a loud and audible tone, again addressed
himself to prayer. At length, having ended his de-
votion, I left the place of my concealment, and
advanced towards him. At first he appeared timid
and alarmed, but on addressing him in words of
sympathy and kindness, he became gradually com-
posed, and I was enabled more closely to observe his
person and appearance. He was a young man, and
from the strangeness of his accent, evidently a
foreigner. Seldom had I seen a finer or more in-
tellectual countenance; and lit as it then was, in all
the ardour of devotion, it would have served a Caracci
for the portrait of a youthful saint, newly gained to
heaven by the ill-usage of the world. As we con-
versed together, he entered freely with me into the
topic of his sorrows and misfortunes ; and seating our-
selves down upon an arm of the tree, with the habi-
tations of the dead by our feet, I gained from him
the following simple details of his life:—
He was a native of Germany. His father was a
small country proprietor, and he himself an only son.
Adeline, his orphan cousin, his playmate from in-
fancy, was brought up in his father’s house, and he
and Adeline tenderjy loved each other. She was
young, beautiful, and innocent, and loved him with
all the fondness of a first love. But, alas, there re-
mained an insurmountable barrier to their happiness.
His parents were opposed to their union. Adeline,
however, had an only brother, one year younger than
herself, apprenticed to a factor in one of the trading
towns of Germany. He was acquainted with the
situation of the lovers, and sympathised wfith them-
To him they looked for assistance; and as the term
of his apprenticeship was almost expired, it was ar-
ranged that they should join him immediately at his
friend’s house. Here they were secretly married ;
but meeting with disappointments, soon afterwards
removed to one of the sea-ports of France, in pursuit
of the employment they desired ; but they were again
defeated, and subsequently sought a refuge m England.
Here they were told of the advantages that would
accrue by emigrating to the Australian colonies, and
of the immense fortunes accumulated there by indi-
viduals of their own countrymen. Allured by the
hope which these representations afforded, they at
length embarked for these shores. Adeline’s husband
was bred an agriculturist, and understood the culti-
vation of the vine; her brother, who accompanied
them in their voluntary exile, was also a youth of
much promise and aptitude. They had raised be-
tween them a small sum, sufficient, with a little
industry, to place them in circumstances of moderate


competence, should their enterprise prove at all pro-
pitious. Years of joy and happiness were before
them. Often would they talk together of those de-
lights, and expatiate on the rising greatness of the
country to which they were bound; —they would
dwell with pleasure on the fascinations of a new life,
in new scenes, and picture forth, Avith all the ardour
and vivacity of buoyant youth, the charms and com-
forts that awaited them in their new career. But,
alas! it was otherwise ordained. The voyage was
completed, and most of the passengers had already
landed, when a boat, containing the husband of Ade-
line, her brother, and herself, with five other indi-
viduals, put off from the ship. They had scarce
proceeded half-way to the shore, when a gale spring-
ing up, compelled them to change their course, and
make for the nearest land; they had gained the
mouth of the little inlet that now lay before us,
glistening in the soft rays of the moon, when the
storm had reached its height. Here the fury of the
waves rendered the boat no longer manageable, and
drifting on a rock, over which the sea dashed with
terrific violence, she went instantly to pieces, engulph-
ing in her ruin the unhappy beings that vainly clung
to her for life. Adeline threw her arms around the
neck of her husband —clasped in each other’s em-
brace, they prepared to firmly meet their fate, and
both in the same moment were wrapt in the gurgling
foam. ' With more than human strength he sustained
her above the waves, and manfully bore her to the
shore. The brother of Adeline alone had escaped
before them : all beside had perished in that fearful
storm, and the bodies of the dead soon afterward
strewed the beach. Adeline was conveyed to a place
of shelter; every remedy that could be found was
applied to restore her to animation, but in vain—the
vital spark had fled, and she never breathed again.
When Alberto, my companion, finished his afflict-
ing narrative in these words —“ she never breathed
again,” an expression of intense agony passed over
his countenance, such as I have never witnessed be-
fore or since. His was, indeed, a calamity of no
ordinary kind.
Nine years have fled since the incidents contained
in my tale were first narrated to me; yet the memory
of them comes back upon me with all the freshness of
a thing of yesterday; and the dread silence that
pervaded that solemn hour when Alberto’s accents
ceased to fall upon my ear, is still present to my
mind, and haunts my imagination as with the fitful
recollections of a horrid dream.
I learned that the two friends ultimately settled in
one of the southern districts, whence, annually, or
oftener, Alberto came to visit the lonely resting-place
of her he had so much loved, —to offer up a prayer
over the lonely grave of his long-lost Adeline.
H.
13irtfjs.
On the 5th instant, at St. Clair Cottage, Goulburn, Mrs.
James Sinclair, of a son.
On the 6th instant, at her residence Marine Lodge, Wool-
oomooloo, the lady of W. S. Deloitte, Esq., of a daughter.
On the 10th instant, at her residence, Sussex-street, Mrs.
W illiam Stewart, of a daughter.
On the 8th instant, Mrs. Walter Watson, of the Talbot Inn,
Cross-roads, near Liverpool, of a son.
On the 3rd instant, at Minamurra, Illaw
Robert Menzies, Esq., J.P., of a daughter.
arra, the lady of
Shipping EiUelltgcnct.
ARRIVALS.
March s.—The steamer Maitland , Parsons, from Port Mac-
quarie, with 32 bales wool, 2300 feet cedar.
March 6.—The schooner Edward, Truscott, from Boyd
Town, Twofold Bay, the 27th ultimo.—The schooner Clarence,
Jacks, from Port Albert, the 24th ultimo.—The whaling ship
Kingston, Ellis, of Fairhaven, from the Whaling Grounds.—
The barque Sultana, Langford, from the Downs 21st November.
March 7.—The brig Christina , Saunders, from Port Phillip,
the Ist instant.
March B.—lhe steamer William the Fourth, Wiseman, from
the Clarence River the 6th instant.—The schooner Falcon ,
Chape, from Honolulu, Sandwich Islands, 16th January,
March 10.—The steamer Shamrock, Gilmore, from Port
Phillip the 2nd, Launceston the 6th, and Twofold Bay the Bth
instant.
March 11.—The brig Guide, Addams, from Auckland the
17th January, and Hokianga the 25th ultimo.—The barque
Corringa Packet, ( hilcott, from Calcutta the 11th December,
Madras the sth January, Trincomalee the 14th January, and
Hobart Town the 2nd instant.—The brig Caroline, Aitken,
returned to port.—The schooner Joseph Cripps, Gwatkin, from
Launceston, the 3rd instant.—The Ann Grant, (Post-office
Paket), Foreman, from the Downs the 3rd November.
DEPARTURES.
March 7. The schooner John and Charlotte, c teele, for
Moreton Bay.—The schooner Harlequin, Bjyle, for Moreton
Bay.
March B.—The schooner Lady Leigh, Reid, for Auckland.
The schooner Terror, Dunning, for Auckland.
March 9.—The schooner Wateriily, Hayle, for Hobart Town.
March ID.—The schooner 1 Don't Know, Thompson, for
Auckland.—The schooner William, Freeman, for Moreton Bav
March lI.—H.M.S. North Star, Sir Everard Home, for
Auckland.
ASVERTI3SMEKT.
AT a Meeting of the friends of Dr. Wallace, held at the
office of the Right Worshipful the Mayor of Svdnev
this 7th March instant. '
The Hon. C. D. Riddell, Esq., M. C., in the chair.
It was resolved that a suitable testimonial of regard and
respect for Dr. Wallace be presented to him by his friends, on
his approaching departure from the colony.
That the following gentlemen be appointed a committee for
the purpose of collecting subscriptions for this object •
C. D. Riddell, M. C.
The Rev. Mr. Allwood
The Rev. Dr. Ross
The Mayor
Stuart A. Donaldson, Esq.
Dr. Nicholson, M. C.
Thomas Barker, Esq.
G. K. Mann, Esq.
John Gilchrist, Esq.
That the amount of subscription be limited to one "uinea
Treasurer." dde "’ ES<l '’ M ’ C> be a PP ointe ‘> Honorary
That this meeting be adjourned until Monday, the 17th
mstant, at the office of the Right Worshipful the Mayor, in
lulswili be S ‘Scl ' W ° °’ Cl ° Ck ’ Khe " ,hc
STUART A. DONALDSON,
Honorary Secretary.
NOTICE.
TN consequence of the near approach of the departure of
X Dr. Wallace, it is particularly requested that all parties
favourable to the object of the above meeting do send in their
subscriptions to any of the before-named gentlemen appointed
as a committee ; or pay the same to the credit of C. D. Riddell
at the Commercial Bank, as soon as possible.
Eosawcoi) aEawiNG-aooM
HP THE NEWEST FASHIONS, imported from the
V V? U , Se °\ Hardln S and Co -» ex Morayshire, from London:
also, Colonial seasoned ditto. A great variety at very re-
duced prices, warranted in character equal to their make of
the last twenty-five years, for sale at
EDWARD HUNT AND CO’S,
Jamison-street.


NOTICE.
TOHN FEARNLEY wishes to acknowledge the uniform
kind support he has heretofore experienced at the hands
of his friends and the public while in business in this city,
and begs respectfully to intimate that he has recommenced
business again as a Hay, Corn, and Provision Dealer, five doors
from his former store, nearer the Queen’s Wharf. Posses-
sing a thorough knowledge regarding the Markets, and a deter-
mination to sell at the lowest cast of profit, he humbly trusts
in a continuance of that support he has unremittingly en-
deavoured to deserve.
Just received, Rankin's famous Bathurst Cheese, and
Captain Weston’s Horsley Butter.
Lower Genrge-street, March 4. A
TO CHEMISTS, DRUGGISTS. AND OTHERS.
T) ECEIVED ex General Heivett, and other late arrivals, a
L\ general assortment of Genuine Drugs and Chemic als,
consisting of— Fine Turkey Gum Arabic, Epsom Salts,
Senna, Calcined Magnesia, Sweet Spirits of Nitre, Essence of
Bergamotte, Carbonate of Soda, Opium, Poppy Heads, Sar -
saparilla, Finest Olive Oil in Jars and half Jars,
superior Cold-drawn Castor Oil, Hydriodate of Potash,
Acetate and Muriate of Morphia, Calomel, Balsam Capaiba,
Bucha Leaves, Turkey and East India Rhubarb, Camomile
Flowers, Cubebs, Corrosive Sublimate, Blue Stone,
Arsenic, Turpentine, &c., &c., &c.
A superior assortment of Hair,Tooth, Nail, Shaving, Flesh,
and Clothes Brushes
Violet Powder, Powder Boxes and Puffs
Ivory and Tortoiseshell Combs
White and brown Windsor Soap, in packets
Cold Cream, Bears’ Grease, &c., &c.
ALSO,
Henry’s Calcined Magnesia, American Soothing Syrup
Bf.atson’s Ring-worm Lotion, Butler’s and Hocking’s
Seidlitz
Cockle’s and Dixon’s Pills, and Murray’s Fluid Magnesia, in
pint bottles, 2s. each, &c.
A. FOSS,
313, Pitt-street North,
And corner of George and Pitt-streets.
BASE CONSPIRACY.
]N consequence of the unprecedented success which has
attended the exertions of the proprietors of the BEE
HIVE Drapery Establishment, to accommodate their cus-
tomers and friends, a conspiracy has been raised against them,
to prevent Christopher Newton and Brother from exposing
their Goods at the shop front, by certain parties in the trade,
who, no doubt, piqued at the immense run of business which is,
day after day, transacted at the BEE HIVE, have resorted to
the police as the most effectual and under-handed way of
interfering with, and endeavouring to exterminate, the only
shop in the Colony where parties are fairly dealt with, or any
thing like reasonable bargains are to be had. The result of
their proceedings has been, that C. N. and Brother have been
compelled to limit the exposure of their immense Stock of
Goods to the windows of the premises, which may be always
known by the BRITISH ENSIGN
Continually hoisted over the Shop. Mark this, friends and
patrons of the BEE HIVE!! If you will only look, you
cannot mistake the Shop—if you will only observe the
emblems of the establishment, the Bee Hive and British
Ensign. Nothing daunted by these futile attempts to put a
stop to the success of their establishment, Christopher Newton
and Brother have resolved to give a bolus for a pill; that is,
they intend to sell every article in the trade cheaper than can
be had in any other house in Sydney. In consequence of
which, one part of the Shop was closed rather earlier than
usual last evening, in order to make a further
REDUCTION OF FIVE PER CENT.
Below their usual charges, so that any person can be supplied
TEN PER CENT. CHEAPER
At the Bee Hive than elsewhere. This immense reduction
under the prices of other houses in the trade may be accounted
for by the fact, that Christopher Newton and Brother have
always supplied their customers five per cent, cheaper than
any other house ; and now they are resolved to make this
sacrifice rather than allow conspirators to enjoy any portion of
that extensive patronage which it has been the lot of C. N. and
Brother to enjoy, and for which they are very grateful, and
further solicit a continuance of the same.
Bee Hive, Nos. 272, 274. 276, 278,
Pitt-street, March 1.
G
PRICE CURRENT,
ENUINE WINES, &c., on sale at the Stores of the
undersigned, prices not deviated for fourteen days from
ALSO,
Port, 4 Sherry, 4 Madeira, 245. per case
ditto, 6 ditto, 245. per case
ebbutt and Co.’s London Porter, warranted superior to any
article ever yet offered in Sydney, at 6s. 6d. per dozen.
The undersigned beg to observe they have no Port Wine at
10s., or Sherry at 12 s. per dozen, the Wines advertised by them
being genuine.
Fifty quarter-casks and ten hogsheads superior Sherry, at
from £6 10s. per quarter-cask.
TEBBUTT AND CO.,
75, King-street, near York-street.
No connexion with any other house in the colony.
TO THE MIDDLING AND WORKING CLASSES.
St. PATRICK'S SAY, or, the FROIVIISE KEPT.
On the Ground, on MONDAY, 17th March, at 12 o’clock
MR. STUBBS will sell by Public Auction, all the remaining
VILLAGE OF PETERSHAM ALLOTMENTS,
Opposite the Cheshire Cheese, adjoining the Cherry Gardens,
P arramatta Road.
These lots are far superior, in allowance of ground, to those
“ lately sold at the Glebe,” and a greater space or depth gives
them a large quantity of back ground, with only moderate
frontages to pay for.
THERE WILL BE NO RESERVE,
and in order to meet the pockets of “ many industrious men
with their families,” who are now paying most unconscionable
rents to masters they are working for in the neighbourhood,
immediate possession will be given, and thus effect a saving to
them of 2s. or 3s. a week, besides having their estate and title,
like the young King of Sweden, “to himself and no other.”
AND THE PUBLIC
Will see by the plan that a road to Canterbury, the Sugar
Works, and Prout's Bridge, is made through the property, and
of the greatest advantage in a neighbourhood of ;such respect-
ability, amongst which may be noticed the residences and
grounds of J. Norton, Esq., Dr. Wardell’s Estate, and other
equally influential proprietors.
The lots are the most convertible possible for building pur-
poses, and those on the main street (especially the corner ones)
are such as every man who is anything of a landlord, and seeks
good rents, must allow are not to be likened anywhere for the
erection of HOUSES OF REFRESHMENT, BUTCHERS,
and BAKERS, GROCERS, CHEMISTS and DRUGGISTS,
and in fact any trade or business whatever. In the employ-
ment of capital to advantage no one need doubt the propriety
or prudence of buying a whole section, which will even come
within the reach of every man.
Terms. —25 per cent, cash deposit; remainder at 6,9, and
12 months, without interest.
* Plans will be put up at Mr. Abraham Hearn’s, at the
Cheshire Cheese, the Cherry Gardens, and at Mr. J. Ireland’s,
a week previous to day of sale.
Note.— All particulars as to a title (which is unexception-
able) can be ascertained on application to Mr. Robert John-
son, Solicitor, 312, Pitt-street, Sydney.
These Allotments are a portion of the well-known Estate, as
describad in the plan, contiguous to the Cheshire Cheese and
Cherry Gardens, and Mr. Ireland’s.
With the usual splendid liberality of the well-known pro-
prietor, THE SALE WILL COMMENCE with the FES-
TIVITIES of the SEASON,
A BULLOCK WILL BE ROASTED!
Booths erected— Music—Races ! —and Public Games ! !
The lots of the former sale are all built on, or being so, which
is the best proof in the world that this is the most
APPROVED, POPULAR, AND CHEAPEST PRO-
PERTY IN THE COLONY.
