

COLONIAL
LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
“ NON TUA TE MOVEANT, SED PUBLICA VOTA.”
Vol. I. No. 19.]
SYDNEY, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1844.
[Price 4d.
INTELLECTUAL DEVELOPMENT.
In a comparison of natural with acquired genius, the
former must be acknowledged as decidedly pre-
eminent ; while it is even doubtful whether such a
quality as the latter, namely acquired genius, can be
said to exist. This assertion is corroborated by the
ancient and popular maxim, and we may add truism,
not only that poets are born with a peculiar mental
constitution, which it is not possible to acquire by any
future training, but that there are, in all men, innate
capacities, by the dictates of which, each is directed in
the choice of the study or calling most suitable for him,
and to which, if possible, he will naturally addict himself.
The consequence of this diversity of talent is, that a
proper poise is preserved in the framework of society,
and none of its parts allowed to preponderate over, or
sink beneath, the rest. Thus is the stream of in-
tellectuality, diverging into innumerable channels, con-
ducted equally through the whole expanse of human
interests, imparting vigour to all alike, instead of
flowing in a few deep currents, strong indeed, but
bestowing no benefit to its surrounding borders.
In illustration of our meaning, let us consider the
inestimable advantage it is to a community that its
members are impelled, each in the exercise of his,par-
ticular qualifications, to follow different professions,
whereby so great a variety of conveniences are pro-
vided for the public satisfaction. On the contrary,
should all follow one and the same profession, or
pursue the same calling, what deplorable conse-
quences would ensue, which happily are prevented
by the endless variety and degrees of intellectual
capacity, by which some are prompted to high under-
takings, while others content themselves with humbler,
but equally necessary, occupations.
When we consider the difference of capacity allotted
to the individuals of the human race, we may feel
somewhat startled at that conjoined portion of pro-
vidential rule which shews itself in the appointment
of different conditions and circumstances; - notwith-
standing some philosophers have maintained that, in
point of intellectual endowments, all men come into
the world on a level of equality—that the bent of their
minds is wholly determined by circumstances—and
that every mental endowment is the result of culture.
They consider this a more cheering doctrine to all
who are fired with a noble emulation of excellence ;
for, say they, if we are to sit down in the belief that,
as far as we ourselves are concerned, our characters
are immutable, and that an insurmountable limit is
set to our attainments, then, indeed, are we the crea-
tures of accident, condemned to intellectual bondage,
and undeserving of any credit for the most honourable
and useful actions. There is, however, much fallacy
in this general view of the question ; for, though born
to unequal means, no one is precluded from exertion,
but, on the contrary, incited to greater efforts, lest
those whose natural talents are less, should, by supe-
rior diligence, outstrip their more highly favoured
competitors.
If it were possible, they again remark, that a
number of children could be similarly circumstanced
and trained, then similar results, in a uniformity of
disposition and ability, would be observed ; had they
been equally encouraged to pursue one thing and
avoid another, their inclinations would have run with
the same force in the same channel. But this is not
the case; and their characters come to be as various
as the seemingly unimportant, but, in reality) most
influential, events which occur in the earliest period of
their lives. The powerful effect produced, by such
trivial occurrences, on the youthful and flexible powers
of thought, have never been duly considered, and
perhaps can never be properly estimated.
The soundness of the popular opinion is not shaken
by these casuistical speculations, whatever weight they
may possess in themselves. They prove only that
ideas are not innate, but are communicated, according
to circumstances, from the external world ; while they
leave uncontroverted the fact, that the capacity or
aptitude for entertaining particular classes of ideas is
imprinted in the mind from the earliest period of its
connection with the body. “ That a sluggish soul
(continues a writer on this subject) for the most part
finds a congenial habitation in an inactive body, is
apparent enough to the most limited observation. It
is also true that a mind so situated is subjected to a
disadvantage in depending for its impressions upon an
inefficient set of intelligencers, which is the case when
the bodily senses are obtuse. But are not the abilities
of the workman displayed by the very instruments to
the use of which he accustoms himself? If a labourer
resorts to ponderous implements, and manifests a pre-
dilection for felling trees, we do not usually predicate
of him, that, with the same industry and with minuter
tools, he would have been as expert in the more in-
genious art of engraving upon wood. His occupation
is evidently determined by his aptitude for slow,
although powerful, exertions of muscular energy, which
is something very different from that nicety of touch
and manual dexterity which are necessary to turn the
lines that are to express the features, or to scoop thoss


hollows that are to give to a miniature landscape its
contrasts of light and shade, and to hit off, with pre-
cision and ease, the difficult transitions from the one
to the other. There is no more reason for supposing
an original uniformity in all men’s minds, than for
alleging that the stamina of the bodily frame and the
groundwork of the features at first presented no
variety, but were modified and moulded wholly by
the foods and drinks which nourished them, and by
the pressure of the atmosphere amid which they were
developed.
Precocity of genius in particular directions is so
frequently manifested, that it is not possible to con-
ceive that it depends in any measure upon circum-
stances or education. When a lady, who has since
made a conspicuous figure in the world, was an infant,
her father’s residence happening to be within hearing
of one of the city clocks, she withdrew her lips from
the breast to listen to the hours when they were struck ;
from which, even at that early period, it was with
truth conjectured that the vibration of sound affected,
in her, organs peculiarly sensible to musical im-
pressions. How many at the same age were then,
and have since been, within range of the same peals,
who yet continued to drain their nurses with a total
indifference to their loudest reports ! And yet, if it
were true that children are nothing but what early
circumstances make them, a love of melody should
distinguish all those who, having been born within a
certain distance of a church bell, have had the capa-
bilities of their ears aroused by such repeated and
sonorous appeals to them. The same girl justified
the expectation of her parents by playing to admi-
ration on the piano-forte at five years of age, and,
being patronised by a noble lady, composed music,
and published it, and dedicated it to her patroness
when she was eight.
It is true that a deficient ear may be, to a certain
extent, rectified, end rendered more susceptible of
harmonious modulations of sound. Dr. Vandermonde’s
experiments to correct w'hat is called a false voice
proved this very satisfactorily But we do not
learn that any one was ever made a musical prodigy
by the most assiduous cultivation ; and we have
abundant instances, besides the one already alluded
to, of children who have been so, almost without any
sort of cultivation.
The force of natural genius might be shown to be
equally powerful in all other departments of human
knowledge; so that the effect produced upon mind,
by matter, or, in other words, by external circum-
stances of every kind, though great, must be pro-
nounced to be only subsidiary; the popular opinion,
in this instance, as in many others, being found to
maintain its ground against all the ingenuity of specu-
lates.”
Biography.
JOSEPHUS.
[From the Edinburgh Literary Journal.']
‘Josephus, of all the Jews the most celebrated for his genius
and learning, was the son of Matthias, an honourable citizen
of Jerusalem, who was connected by descent both with the
regal and priestly branches, and hence transmitted to his son
a twofold honour, that was doubly dear in the eyes of his
fellow-citizens. His son soon distinguished himself by his
inclination for learning; and, what was remarkable in a Jew,
he confined not himself to his own contracted sphere of
Hebrew literature, but, boldly bursting through the prejudices
that fettered his countrymen, he expatiated abroad into the
more ample and diversified fields of Greek and Roman science.
He made himself an eloquent master of the language of Athens,
and became thereby enabled to defend and to do justice to his
country, and to celebrate, in the universal and harmonious
language of Homer and Herodotus, the institutions, manners,
and achievements of his sublime and extraordinary country-
men. He was not only an accomplished scholar, but an
ingenious and accomplished general; he for a long time
checked and baffled, by his talents, the victorious ai*ms of
Vespasian: and when at last necessity compelled him to
philosophise on the advantages or the expediency of submis-
sion, he had already secured the esteem and admiration of his
noble opponents, who knew virtue too well in themselves not to
value it in at once an accomplished and undaunted enemy.
Like the Grecian general Polybius, to whom his character and
circumstances bear considerable resemblance, he, after fighting
bravely against the conquerors of the world, and sharing at
last the fate of a captive, was at once admitted into their friend-
ship and most familiar confidence : and, at last, with his pen,
commended that magnanimity and skill in arms which at once
had extorted his admiration and compelled his submission.
Happy had it been for his countrymen had they been influenced
by his excellent counsels, as the Greeks were by those of the
virtuous general of Megalopolis!
The works of Josephus are voluminous, and bear testimony
to his diligent and persevering genius. His largest, though
not his best work, is his Archaeology, or Jewish Antiquities, in
twenty books, wherein he deduces the history of Judea from
the creation to the age of Nero, and which is chiefly valuable
from its filling u]3 the chasm that separates Old and New
Testament History. His Jewish War, in seven books—his
most eloquent work—details, along with some preliminary
recapitulation, the terrible incidents of that singular war that
commenced under Nero, and terminated in the extirpation of
. the Jews, and destruction of their capital by Vespasian and
Titus.
It is only of the style of the Jewish historian that the writer
of these remarks means here to speak, and not of the credibility
of his statements as compared with the Bible, and as inducing
or justifying against their author a charge of credulity or of
incredulity. The style of Josephus in his Archaeology is some-
what irregular and discrepant. His mind and his pen seem
to vacillate between the redundancies of Grecian eloquence,
which, bjing fashionable in his day, he rather affected, and the
simplicity of Hebrew narration, as presented to us, unadorned
and unaffected, by the historians of the Old Testament, to
which his mind, as it necessarily resorted to them for informa-
tion, had also a propensity to adhere, as a native, in laudable
imitation. There is a perpetual conflict, as it were, between
the concise simplicity of Judea and the spendid exaggeration
of Greece ; a heterogeneous mixture of the splendid with the
simple in writing as in architecture, the intermixture of Pa-
lestine plainness with Grecian magnificence in the tombs of
the valley of Jehosaphat. Accordingly, the naked narrative of
Moses is in many places spoiled, as it passes through the hands
of this historian, by unnecessary exuberance. The story of
Joseph, so exquisitely impressive by its touching and forcible
simplicity, where every word is, as it were, a weapon; the
dedication of the temple by Solomon, one of the finest passages
to be found in any writing, are vitiated and reduced in their
effect by the cumbersome and spurious eloquence with which
the sentiments are overloaded. It is in the history of times
less ancient, and of transactions within the compass of his own
experience, that his mind, making no reference to the simple


annals of Judea, and left free and unfettered to its own scope
of splendid illustration, manifests its peculiar power. In his
Archaeology, his account of the divisions that rent, tormented,
and dispeopled the palaces of Herod ; of the death of King
Agrippa; in his Jewish War, his description, most masterly in
its kind, of the siege of Jotapata; of the attack in the streets
of Gamala; of the entrance of the Idumeans by night, during
a storm, into Jerusalem; of the naval battle on the sea of
Genesareth; of the captures of the fort of Masada; of the
bloody conflicts in and round about Jerusalem; of the
triumphal entry into Rome of Vespasian—are not surpassed
either by Livy or any other Greek or Latin historian. He is
undoubtedly the most sublime of all historians; his genius
being decidedly Jewish, and partaking largely of that fervency
and soaring superiority which characterise the writings of his
extraordinary countrymen. Perhaps he is too sublime for
history ; his narrative flows along in epic pomp and dignity,
broken sometimes into bursts of tragic vehemence ; it is like
the long and richly-flowing river of gold and silver, to which
he himself likens the triumphal entry of Vespasian. As his
narrative part is thus splendid, the argumentative portion,
consisting of his orations, is, in a corresponding degree,
eloquent; more discursory, but not displaying less ratiocinative
invention than the speeches of Livy. Indeed, of the Greek or
Roman historians, Livy is the only one that may pretend to
rival him in vivacity or splendour: and if the Roman
historian at all exceeds him, it is in the compression, the
condensed force and invigorated majesty, of the language,
rather than in the brightness and magnificent flow of the images.
As connected with the Old and New Testaments, and as
throwing light on the incidents, characters, manners, and
localities noted in Scripture record, the works of Josephus
cannot be too much valued by a Bible student. They are by
far the best commentary and expositor one can use in reading
the Old and New Testaments.”
HOME.
“ Home, home, sweet home !
There is no place like home.” —Old Song.
A happy home is a pleasure indeed, and who does not
feel it to be so ? Who that has a heart within his
bosom, but does not feel with lively gratitude its
sweets and its delights ? Do the young and tender
infant, the manly youth, or the blushing maiden, ever
forget their home ? What is it that is nearest their
hearts, that is continually in their thoughts ? It is
home, sweet home ! Or does yon blooming maid,
who has left her father’s house, to be the bride of
one she loves, the long-tried object of her affections ;
and that young husband, as he views with honourable
pride, the lovely being who has thus entrusted her
future happiness to his care, contented with him to —
“ Live and love together,
Through many changing years
do they ever cease to think of the home they have
left—of the joys they there experienced, and the
pleasures they there received ? Will they ever forget
the tear that glistened in their aged parents’ eyes,
when with a heavy heart they said, " Good-bye’
father; farewell, mother!” or will the faithful admo-
nitions they then received be ever blotted out from
their memory ? ear was it that was always
open to their cry ? Whose voice was it that, in accents
sweet to hear, would cheer and comfort them in their
distress ? It their parents ! Can, then, they
forget their beloved home ? When the sea forgets to
flow back to the rocky beach, or the sandy shore it
has left —when nature forgets to rettirn in the glorious
days of summer—when the earth forgets to yield its
green herbage and its sweet fruits ; then, but not till
then, will a child cease to remember its home.
See yon little wayward stripling ; he has wandered
away from his home in search of some attractive and
alluring object. He has wandered on unconsciously,
and now he knows not how to return: wearied and
worn, he feels as if he could lay him down, and sleep
upon a grassy bed beside him. What is the plaintive
cry that salutes the ear of the passer-by ? he stretches
forth his little hands, and, with an imploring look, he
cries, “oh take me home.” How his little bosom
heaves with pleasure, when he comes upon the well-
known track that conducts him to his home, which is
but a few paces distant. Or look at that forlorn crea-
ture, she once bloomed in loveliness and beauty, there
were few so fair as she, and all was innocence and joy ;
but alas ! in a fatal hour she yielded to the seducer’s
wiling voice, and now—
“ The traitor who robbed her of maiden fame,
Has cast her forth to a life of shame.”
Her sickly countenance and her down-cast looks tell,
as she puts her hand upon the heaving breast, that
“she has a silent sorrow there.” Whither does she
direct her lonely steps ? “ Let me go home, she says,
“ let me go home.” Yes let her go home ; for an
anxious father longs to receive his erring daughter to
his arms, to breathe forgiveness, and welcome her
again to his “ ain fireside.” See that frail old man,
how he walks along with tottering steps ; his wrinkled
brow and furrowed cheeks show that care, as well as
age, have made sad havoc upon his shattered frame ;
he is fast verging into second childhood, for his stoop-
ing gait and thin white locks proclaim that he has
braved the stormy blasts of more than ninety winters :
allured by the inviting sunshine, he has ventured forth
from his home to breathe the pure, fresh air, but it has
proved too much for his feeble constitution, he is ex-
hausted, and he leans back for support ; soon a crowd
gather around him, he scans each countenance one by
one, but he sees no familiar face among them ; no
kind friend is near ; again he casts a wishful look
along the road, and mutters “home, home.” Even
he, whose delight it is to mix in the midnight revel,
and join in the drunken debaueh ; who boasts of his
dissipated life, and glories to lead in the world’s gay
scenes of pleasure ; even he, who joins in the bois-
terous laugh of his companions in dissipation, some-
times think of home. “ A still small voice” within
him fails not to remind him’of his sweet abode where
all are happy save him. He listens for a moment, and
half resolves to live a better and a holier life ; but a
scornful jeer, or a ribald jest from his companions,
stings him to the heart, and soon throws all his good
resolves to the winds. He quaffs another cup, and
drains it to the dregs, to banish from his memory the
recollection of such a thought. That husband, too,
when he led his young wife to the altar, promised to
to love, cherish, and support her; for a while all was
love, all was happiness ; slowly, by degrees, that love
grew cold ; that happiness was gone—wiled away from
his home, he spent his evenings in the tavern, while
his faithful partner would sit by the lonely fire waiting
for his return, when all was sunk in sleep but her.
Woman, thou are constant ever; amidst all her sorrows,
her affections still remain unchanged—her love remains
unaltered ; but mark, her visage is wan, her cheeks are


faded, her countenance is pale, and her heart eaten to the
core, with bitter, bitter grief. Ah ! false deceiver, well
may’st thou turn aghast, when you contemplate your
heedless folly ! Little do you know the sorrow you
have caused that gentle being ; think of her and your
infant child ; remember your broken vows; forsake
your evil course ; flee your bad associates, and then
your home shall be a happy home indeed.
The mariner, the weather-beaten sailor, in his youth
left a happy home to seek another on the stormy
deep ; his fond mother used all her entreaties, but in
vain. At length, when parting came, she could not
part, but
He left her, and with heart too full to speak
He took away her last warm tears upon his cheek.
Scarcely had he set his foot upon his ship, when his
ears were greeted with oaths and imprecations, enough
to make him tremble at their very name. His soul
recoiled back with horror from such bitter curses, and
silently he would turn to another part of the vessel,
where he would be out of reach of their voices, Soon,
however, no such abhorence was felt. Gradually he
mingled with them, and none now so loud, so careless
as he. When once a sailor youth wanders from the
paths of virtue and piety, he is hurried on from one
vice to another, and, with no one to check his wild
career, he plunges still deeper and deeper, until he
throws from him the reins of passion, and is utterly
lost; then farewell to future amendment, farewell to
future good. Sometimes at the midnight watch, as
he paces along the deck, his thoughts revert back to
home ; but soon these thoughts vanish, to give place
to some dissipated theme. He has spent years in the
service of vice, and his feelings become absorbed,
his soul gets deadened within him ; and when some
dreadful storm arises, and the vessel is tossed and
driven about the mighty ocean, until it founders on a
rock : all strive to reach the land, but the angry waves,
as they recede, draw them back again to the vortex, to
meet a watery grave. He reaches some little crag,
and scrambles over the rock. Safe from the billows’
roar, fatigued with his exertions, he sits down and
gazes on the scene before him. The vessel fast dis-
appears from his view, and all have perished but him.
Cast upon an unknown shore, he knows not where to
go ;he is cold and shivering, for his little all is lost. It
is then that his love for home is strongest; it is then
that he thinks upon his fond mother, and he
Recalls her tears to him at parting given,
Tare as they weep, if angels weep in heaven !
He pulls from his breast a bible —a sacred remem-
brance —the parting giu of a beloved sister. He
opens the sacred book; his eye rests upon that pas-
sage, “ I will arise and go to my father“ and will
not I ?” he says, as he heaves a sigh, “ will not I arise
and go to my home ?” The shipwrecked mariner feels
as if his strength was renewed. Animated with the
thought, he forgets his wearied limbs, and he journeys
on until he reaches the place of his childhood’s abode.
How his eyes beam with delight when he looks upon
the surrounding scenes where he used to roam in his
youth ! Gently he opens the door, and looks around.
All look upon the stranger as if they knew him not;
all save one, who scans his countenance with interest,
and recognises in those features her long lost, but now
repentant son. Too sudden and unexpected joy
overcomes her feelings. He falls upon her bosom
and weeps, while he exclaims, “mother, forgive!
forgive !”
And has the wandering exile no love for home 1
Is not home dear to him who has left his native iand,
and spent the summer of his life in a foreign country *?
What feelings possessed his breast as he took his de-
parture, when he turned upon the hill and gave a last
fond look at that cottage where he had lived so
happily *? ’twas hope that cheered him on ; ’twas hope
that he would return in after years with independence
and claim it as his own ; and now, far from his friends
and those he holds most dear on earth, he assiduously
applies himself to habits of industry; preferring busi-
ness before pleasure, he soon acquires that wealth he
is in search of; but still he is not happy, his heart
yearns for his home —he has an earnest longing for
his native country. Is there a man—
“ Whose heart within him ne’er hath burned,
As home his footsteps he hath turned,
From wandering on a foreign strand V*
Even he who lias—
“ Gone to seek a bower of bliss,
In lovelier lands than this
who has roamed through the climes of the genial
south, where the cypress and the myrtle, the jessamine
and the pomegranate, grow in all their beauty and
luxuriance ; where nature has lavished her favours,
and o’er the face of fair creation all is lovely ; yet,
when he hears some plaintive air, or some favourite
tune which once, was familiar to him, but now for-
gotten, it strikes a chord which vibrates in his bosom ;
his memory recalls all the dear associations connected
with the strain ; he thinks of the home of his child-
hood—the land of his fathers—and he exclaims, in the
spirit of Cowper—
“ England, with all thy faults, I love thee still.
But home is dear to all ; even she, whose unhappy
home caused her to leave it with little regret to seek
a happier one in a stranger’s home —
“ Sighs for the home she left with little pain,
And wishes even its sorrows back again.”
Home is the source of all real happiness, and who
does not cherish a love for it ? It is there that the
virtuous father assembles his cheerful family around
the fireside, and instils into their young minds those
principles which adorn the Christian’s noble character;
it is there that religion is fostered —virtue learned,
and every ennobling quality gained, which distinguish
those bright luminaries who claim our highest admi-
ration and respect. It is home that “ promotes the
happiness of society—advances the interests of religion,
virtue, and humanity, and encourages a spirit of in-
dustry, perseverance and economy.” That man s
heart is cold indeed who could forsake such enjoy-
ments to revel among scenes of dissipation and vice
that man’s heart is estranged indeed, who would leave
his native home to wander amongst other climes —for
where is the place like home ? Echo answers—where !
for there is no place like home.
We have spoken of the pleasures of an earthly
home ; but there is another, even a heavenly. We
are all strangers and pilgrims in this world; as tra-
vellers pursuing their journey to another country;
sojourning for a little by the waj to mix in the world’s
scenes, to view its pageants, to bear its burdens, to
feel its sorrows and to share its joys ; but as years
glide swiftly past, so do we fade away. Every hour,
nay every moment of our existence, brings ns a step
further on our journey to our final home; ’tis as a
passing scene, for scarcely have a few short years


rolled awav, until we bid this world adieu, and depart
to that place from whence there is no return ; for no
traveller, after he has passed its portals, ever returned
to tell us aught of his destined home ; but it is only
the Christian who can think of it as a happy and bliss-
ful home. Ask him, and he’ll tell you that there
is another and a better world beyond this “ vale of
tears ;” he’ll point to yonder sky and say, “ There is
my home ; ’tis a house not made with hands, eternal
in the heavens.” He longs to reach that happy land
-—to join the angelic host and sing their heavenly
strains ; he knows that though he has been tempest-
tossed, and troubled on the ocean of life, yet, when
he leaves his cold prison-house of clay, there is a
destined haven—a final resting place, where all is
peace, serene and happy ; where he will bask in the
sunshine of his Redeemer’s love and feel no sorrow —
endure no trials—no difficulties to overcome —no
burdens to bear—no cares to disturb his pure, his holy,
and his heavenly bliss.
“ Cheered by this hope,”
he cares not for the world’s frowns ; he seeks not the
world’s pleasures, but calmly waits the appointed hour
when God will call him from a world of sin, to the
full enjoyment of a heavenly home ; no tongue can
tell, no man can conceive such ecstatic joy—shining
with celestial purity he mounts on angels’ wings—
with cherubim and seraphim he joins the rapturous
song, and, while ages roll and eternity endures, he
tastes unmingled, never-ending joy in his eternal home
beyond the skies.— Tait's Magazine.
History.
ANCIENT HISTORY: SECTION XVII.
SUCCESSORS OF ALEXANDER.
1. Alexander, on his death-bed, named no succes-
sor, but gave his ring to Perdiccas, one of his officers.
When his courtiers asked him to whom he wished the
empire to devolve upon his death, he replied, 4 To the
most worthy and he is said to have added, that he
foresaw this legacy would prepare for him very ex-
traordinary funeral rites : a prediction which was
fully verified. Shortly after his death, his queen
Roxana gave birth to a son, who w 7 as named Alex-
ander* He also left by Barsine, the widow of
Mem non of Rhodes, a son named Hercules, and he
had a half-brother, named Philip Aridssus, who was
of weak mind.
2. Perdiccas, sensible that his pretensions would
not justify a direct assumption of the government of
this vast empire, brought about a division of the whole
among thirty-three of the principal officers ; to each
of whom he assigned the charge of a province, and to
himself he reserved the command-in-chief-ship of the
army: trusting to their inevitable dissensions, he
proposed by that means to reduce all of them under
his own authority. Hence arose a series of wars and
intrigues, of which the detail is barren both of amuse-
ment and useful information. It is sufficient to say,
that their consequence was a total extirpation of the
family of Alexander, and a new partition of the
empire into four great monarchies : Macedon, with a
part of Greece; Thrace; Egypt, with Cyrene and
Cyprus; and Syria, with all Upper Asia ; the shares
of Cassander, Lysimachus, Ptolemy, and Seleucus ;
of these the most powerful were that of Syria, under
Seleucus and his descendants ; and that of Egypt,
under the Ptolemies.
4 We cannot,’ says Condillac, 1 fix our attention on
the history of the successors of Alexander, though a
great theatre is opened to our view, a variety of
scenes, and multiplied catastrophes. A picture is
often displeasing from the very circumstances of its
greatness. We lose the connexion of its parts, be-
cause the eye cannot take them in at once. Still less
will a large picture give us pleasure, if every part of
it presents a different scene, each unconnected with
the other.’ Such is the history of the successors of
Alexander.
SECTION XVIII. FALL AND CONQUEST OF GREECE.
1. Nor is the history of Greece from the period of
the death of Alexander any longer an interesting
or pleasing object of contemplation. Demosthenes
once more made a noble attempt to vindicate the na-
tional freedom and to rouse his countrymen, the
Athenians, to shake off the yoke of Macedon. But
it was too late. The pacific councils of Phocion
suited better the languid spirit of this once illustrious
people.
2. The history of the different republics present
from this time nothing but a disgusting series of un-
interesting revolutions ; with the exception only of
that last effort made by the Achaean states to revive
the expiring liberty of their country. The republic
of Achaia was a league of a few of the smaller states
to vindicate their freedom against the domineering
spirit of the greater. They committed the government
of the league to Aratus of Sicyon, with the title of
Praetor, a young man of great powders of mind and of
high ambition, wffio immediately conceived the more
extensive project of rescuing the whole of Greece from
the dominion of Macedon. But the jealousy of the
greater states rendered this scheme abortive. Sparta
refused to range herself under the guidance of the
praetor of Achaia : and Aratus, forgetting his patriotic
designs, sought only now to wreak his vengeance
against the Lacedaemonians. For this purpose, wfith
the most inconsistent policy, he courted the aid even
of the Macedonians ; the very tyrants who had enslaved
his country.
3. The period was now come for the intervention
of a foreign power, which was to reduce all under its
wide-spreading dominion. The Romans were at this
time the most powerful of all the contemporary nations.
The people of iEtolia, attacked by the Macedonians,
with a rash policy, besought the aid of the Romans,
who, eager to add to their dominion this devoted
country, cheerfully obeyed the summons, and speedily
accomplished the reduction of Macedonia. Perseus,
its last sovereign, was led captive to Rome, and graced
the triumph of Paulus iEmilius, 167 b.c. From that
period, the Romans were hastily advancing to the
dominion of all Greece ; a progress, in which their
art was more conspicuous than their virtue. They
gained their end by fostering dissensions between the
states, which they directed to their own advantage ;
corrupting their principal citizens, and using, in fine,
every art of the most insidious policy. A pretext
was only wanted to unsheathe the sword ; and this
was furnished by the Achaean states, who insulted
the deputies of imperial Rome. This drew on them
at once the thunder of the Roman arms : Metellus
marched his legions into Greece, gave them battle,
and entirely defeated them. Mummius, the consul,


terminated the work, and made an easy conquest of
the whole of Greece, which from that period became
a Roman province, under the name of Achaia, 146 b.c.
4. Rome had acquired from her conquests a flood
of wealth, and began now to manifest a taste for
luxury and a spirit of refinement. In these points
Greece was to her conquerors an instructor and a
model :
Graecia capta ferum victorem cepit, et artes
Intulit agresti Latio.—
Hence, even though vanquished, she was regarded
with a species of respect, by her ruder masters.
ZAMOR.
[From The Atiienjeum.]
The air was basking in the noontide among the hills
that are traversed by the rapid Erigon. The woody
sides of the valleys which opened upon the river, lay
slumbering in breezy dimness ; but the sky was blue
and bright around the breasts and peaks of the moun-
tains, except where broad white clouds, floating high
and swift between them and the sun, varied the land-
scape by occasional sweeps of shadow. The sparkling
and winding water flowed silently along the green
bases of the eminences, and its surface was marked by
nothing but the differences of colour occasioned by the
wind and stream, and by the fresh-looking islets of
water plants, or the trunk of a tree rolling down the
current, and shewing its brown branches, or the white
rent of its stem, among the shining ripples. Down
one of the glens which descend towards the stream,
a boy of thirteen or fourteen years of age was slowly
wandering. He was tall, and of a noble presence.
His open and upturned brow was surrounded with
careless ringlets of light brown hair, and was shaded
by a low cap or bonnet, in which he wore an eagle’s
feather. His dark-coloured kirtle descended to his
knee, over trousers which left the leg exposed above
the sandal. A belt of wolf’s skin sustained a short
sword, and confined his dress around the waist; and
he led with the left hand, in a twisted chain of gold,
a large and powerful dog, while, in his right, he
carried a strong hunting spear, the point of which
gleamed like a star above his head. His features
were of a regular and spirited beauty ; and his quick
eye perpetually glanced from the path he was pur-
suing to the mountains round him and the skies
beyond. He proceeded in his devious and negligent
course, now sinking into thought, now rushing and
leaping over rocks and bushes, while the dog sprang
up, and barked, and sported round him, till he reached
an irregular and broken wood, which spread, though
with many intervals, along the green banks of the
river.
The boy threw himself under the shade of an oak,
where he had a glimpse of the cool water among the
stems of the trees ; and his canine friend couched
quietly by his side, now looking up into his face,
now rubbing his legs with its nose, and wagging its
bushy tail, now closing its eyes, and sinking with a
sigh into a tranquil doze. The youth, too, was so
still, that he might have been thought to slumber,
had not his restless glances indicated the stir within.
It was, indeed, a mind not formed for inactivity ; but
its present thoughts were rather the overflowing and
sport of its vigour, than the application of it to any
definite end. He remembered the oracles which had
spoken among the ancient oaks of Epirus, till he
almost heard the promise of his own greatness sound-
ing from the trees, while they trembled and rustled
around and above him. And then came imaginations
of the Dryads, the forest spirits, so beautiful and so
capricious, who were accustomed to fly from men,
and dedicate their loveliness to the greenwood shade.
As the breeze moved the shadow of some branch, he
started to think that he saw the waving of the airy
locks: and he beheld for a moment the twinkle of
the light footsteps, in the casual breach of a sunbeam
through the foliage on the dark ground of the vistas
before him. These visions passed away, and, in their
place, seemed sweeping through the distant obscurity
of the thicket, the pomp and triumph of Bacchus—
the youths with arms and wine-cups, and baskets of
gorgeous fruits unknown to Europe—the dark eyes*
and glowing limbs of damsels, whose wreaths of
oriental flowers shook fragrance through the air,
while swiftly and gracefully they flung aloft and
struck together their ringing cymbals—ancient Pan,
with a world of merriment in his pipe—and, amid a
tumult of green coronals and wild exultations, the
young conqueror himself, drawn forward by nis lions,
with-the pride of a hundred victories on his brow, and
the joyousness of a hundred vintages on his lips, and
a spear so often washed in wine, and so clustered
with grapes and ivy berries, half hid among their
foliage, that not a trace of its myriad death-stains
were visible. They gleamed for a moment from the
recesses of the green maze on the eye of the dreaming
boy; and why should not he too be the conqueror of
Asia, and his banners return over the Hellespont,
laden and glittering with the spoils of the Euphrates
and the Indus'?
He rose while he thought it, so hastily that his
dog gave a slight cry at feeling the pull which his
collar received from the arm of his master, who stepped
forward eagerly for an instant, while his right hand
grasped the spear with an energy indicating, even
then, how bold would be the spirit, and how wide the
fame, of Alexander the son of Philip.
He walked forward for a few minutes with boyish
impetuosity, when his attention was diverted by
seeing a large blue butterfly, which flew across his
path. He freed from the collar the chain which held
Lacon, and pursued the insect; while the dog, in
imitation of his master, rushed barking, and eager-
in pursuit of the same wandering object. It led him
among the hills which he had before left, never
coming within his reach, but never mounting so far
away as to make him relinquish the pursuit. It flew
at last over the edge of a precipice into a broken and
narrow dell ; but the fearless and active boy dropped
from the verge, and, after scrambling for a minute or
two among the rocks and bushes, reached the end of
the descent. It was a wild and lonely hollow, on
the steep banks and narrow area of which the pine
and the cypress rose above the thick under-growth of
weeds, shrubs, and flowers. The insect still hovered
before its pursuer; and, after a few steps, he found
that he had followed it into an ancient cemetery. The
tombs seemed to have been mouldering in neglect for
centuries, and merely a few irregular mounds, and
broken fragments of walls, remained. Beyond one
of these relics of building, now covered with different
vigorous creepers, the bright blue wings disappeared.
He went to the spot, and found that, beyond the
dilapidated wall, the sun streamed in upon a little


patch of grass. Here the insect had poised itself upon
a human skull, half covered with moss, and crowned
by a natural wreath of trailing honeysuckle. Thus
was perched the beautiful and airy creature he had
been chasing, with its azure fans expanded, and glit-
tering in the sunshine. It seemed the immortal
Psyche, the spiritual life, waiting to take wing from
amid the dust and decay of mortality. The boy
leaped over the obstruction, and stooped to seize it;
but it vibrated for am instant the splendid pennons
which served it for sails, and rose swiftly and far
above the head of the disappointed pursuer.
He looked after it for a few seconds, and Lacon
bayed fiercely at the -soaring insect; but his owner
stooped again to the relic; for, when he had pre-
viously bent towards the butterfly, he had seen what
appeared to be metal shining on the turf. It was a
large gold coin, which lay between the teeth of the
skull. The device of an eye w r ithin a circle, was
distinctly visible on one side, and, on the other, was
traced, in the oldest character Alexander had ever
seen, the word Zamor.
He restored the coin to its place ; but, such was his
recollection of the occurrence, that the signet where-
with, in after years, he sealed Hephsestion’s lips, bore
the device of a butterfly poised upon a skull, with
the motto, Zamor.
# * * * *
The youth was a youth no more. He was, in all
the vigour and beauty of manhood, a sovereign and
a conqueror, and roamed no longer in the woods of
Macedonia, but in the deep gloom of an Indian forest.
He had outstripped his train in the eagerness of the
chase ; and, when the thick jungle prevented him
from continuing his course on horseback, he leaped
from the saddle and pierced his way on foot. His
mantle was now of regal splendour, and his light
helmet was encircled with a slender diadem of gold.
The garment which fell from under his inlaid cuirass
to his knee, was interwoven with silver thread, and
his sandals were studded with jewels. His lips had
gained the firm expression of will and power, and
thought had left its stamp upon his forehead.
He speedily penetrated through the thicket which
had interrupted him, and found himself in a little
glade, surrounded by spreading trees. He stood still,
and gazed for a moment; and it seemed to him that
he heard, not far off, the half-.stifled sobs of sorrow.
He moved in the direction of the sound, and, after
pushing through a screen of bushes, found himself
near an old man, who knelt upon the ground, close
to the trunk of a great tree ; and, while his clasped
hands trembled on his shuddering breast, the tears
fell thickly from his eyes. He w r ore the dress of a
Brahmin. Beside him lay the corpse of a girl, ap-
parently twelve or thirteen years of age. Though
her skin was rather more dusky than that of Euro-
peans, she was very beautiful in the eyes of the king.
Her round and shining limbs were of the most ex-
quisite delicacy ; the long black hair, wreathed with
white flowers, fell loose over her maiden bosom, which
had ceased to heave with the breath of life. An
arrow had pierced her through the body, and the blood
had flowed to the knees of the old man, and stained
his garments. He was a father, wailing over his
murdered child.
Alexander silently approached, and saw, that on
the left breast of the lovely form, in which the heart
no longer stirred, a blue butterfly had placed itself.
The agony and tears of the parent did not disturb it.
He touched the hair and fingers of the body with a
trembling affection, and gazed at it long and pas-
sionately ; and then again his whole frame was shaken,
and he burst into a paroxysm of grief. As the king
drew near, the insect rose and soared away to the
heavens. Alas! that, like it, the corpse could not
raise itself from the dust it adorned, and move again
in all the vivacity and grace of its former existence !
The conqueror spoke in a low, reverential, and
sympathizing voice, to the bereaved father. The old
man started at the sound, rose to his feet, and shook
off, as far as nature permitted him, the tokens of his
agony. Alexander asked him by what misfortune he
had lost his daughter. “ The soldiers,” replied the
Brahmin, “ of the insane and cruel invader who has
attacked our country, seized my child, and would
have detained her, but that she escaped by flight from
their hands, when one of them shot an arrow, which
slew my beautiful and my beloved.” —“ I swear by
the gods, they shall be punished ; hut do you know,
old man, to whom you speak, that you thus venture
to calumniate the great Alexander 1 ?”—“ If I could
not judge by the vulgar signs of those gay and fan-
tastic trappings, I should yet recognise the eyes which
so readily glare, the nostril that dilates, the brow that
contracts, with passion. These all mark the man who
has been accustomed to command others, but not him-
self.”—“ This is a sight,” replied the king, pointing
to the dead body, “ which prompts me to forgive your
boldness.” —“ It is a sight, 0 king, which should
rather teach you that I do not need your forgiveness.
You have robbed my earthly existence of its charm
and glory; I care not now how soon it may end.”—
“ This is philosophy which would have pleased Cal-
listhenes. What is your name and condition?”—
“ I am called Sabas ; and, after having travelled over
many countries, and learned your language in the
Lesser Asia, I have lived, and been happy” —here he
faltered, and looked at his child—“ at the tomb of
the sage Zamor.”
The warrior started at the name, and asked of Sabas
who was Zamor. The Brahmin replied, that he had
lived many ages before, and had been a mighty con-
queror ; but that, after overrunning half the earth, he
had flung away at once the sceptre and the sword,
and betaken, himself to a life of meditation and bene-
volence. The old man went on to say, that the king
would learn more from the chief of the Brahmins,
who attended the tomb, and to him Sabas brought
Alexander.
The ancient teacher to whom the Grecian com-
mander was thus introduced, trembled in his presence,
and, on his demanding to know something more with
regard to Zamor, replied, that, in addition to what
Sabas had told him, the following information was all
he could supply •. —The venerated being in question
had employed the latter moments of his protracted life
in giving directions as to the place and manner in
which his ashes were to be disposed of; and, in the
volume of pure morality and sublime devotion which
he had left, it was declared that the iron doors which
bounded his sepulchre would never open, till one who
had been as great a conqueror as himself should de-
mand admission. In the course of many ages none
such had presented himself. The pride and curiosity
of the sovereign were aroused, and he desired to be led


to the tomb. The Brahmin summoned his brethren,
and in long files they preceded Alexander to the
cavern. Its rocky circuit was of sufficient extent to
include them all; and they ranged themselves around
the sides, and their leader and the monarch advanced
to the tomb, on which several lamps were burning.
Here the chief Brahmin offered up his prayers, while
the Macedonian went forward to the doors at the
farther extremity, and, to the horror of the throng,
violently smote the massy metal with the hilt of his
sword. The doors crashed open slowly, and dis-
played a staircase. The king descended fearlessly
and alone, and, after a long absence, returned with a
haggard countenance and disordered steps to the
cavern, while the doors closed suddenly behind him.
He seemed, at first, confused and bewildered; but,
soon recovering himself, he looked round him at the
Brahmins, and said, “ I know r not whether you have
a share in yonder mummery ; but, at all events, let
a w r all be built across that entrance, sufficient to pre-
vent any future attempts like mine.” He had paused,
and seemed relapsing into deep and doubtful thought,
when there heard without, a loud rush and clang,
mingled with the sound of trumpets. Alexander
knew the notes, and, resuming all the soldier and the
king, gravely saluted the generals who had sprung
from their horses, and entered the cave to seek him.
He moved before them to the mouth of the cavern,
and found his usual train of several hundred horse-
men, with the chief nobility of Macedonia, Greece,
and Persia, awaiting his appearance. Innumerable
varieties of dress and arms, of language and coun-
tenance, W’ere here assembled ; and every province he
ruled over had sent its noblest and its most splendid
inhabitants to the court of Alexander. All
were mounted on the fleetest and most beautiful
coursers of Thessaly and Asia, and an unrivalled
steed w r as led by the grooms of the monarch. He
mounted it with a careless bound ; and, while he
galloped from the spot, followed by the glittering
whirlwind of officers, feudatories, and kings, he talked
to those around him of the battle, the chase, the ban-
quet, the philosophy of Aristotle, and the charms of
Pancaste.
* * & * *
The day had died in storm ; and the chamber of
Alexander w r as closed and lighted. He lay on his
couch in the restlessness and pain of a fever, from
which he was never to recover. He was attended
only by a young Persian girl, who watched his
lightest word and sign with far more than the care-
fulness of servility. There was all the intensity of
passionate affection in that pale cheek, those tearful
eyes, and that quivering forehead. She moved
silently through the splendid room at the least hint
of the patient’s w’ant; and, when it was satisfied, she
would sit down and weep in silence. It was early
in the evening when he said, “ Abra, I would speak
with Perdiccas.” She flew from the chamber, and,
in a few moments, returned with the person named,
and then retired to the antechamber, where, amono-
slaves, guards, attendants, and physicians, she hid
her face in her hands, and sobbed bitterly, while she
thought that the man she loved would so soon breathe
his last.
Perdiccas entered the room silently and slowly,
and sat beside the bed. After a few moments of
heavy breathing, the king turned towards his friend, |
and told him to move the lamp so that it might throw
no light upon the couch. He then proceeded thus :
“ Perdiccas, you will remember having once found
me in India, at the tomb of Zamor. I have revealed
to no man what I saw there ; but I will now disclose
it to you. The circumstances which led me thither
are of but little importance. Suffice it that I pre-
sented myself at the iron gates, and that they opened
to admit me. I proceeded down a long and dark
flight of steps, then through a passage, then down
other steps, and had at last advanced to an immense
distance through the rock. I thought for a moment
of returning, but I went on, and travelled, as it
seemed, league after league. At length I reached an
iron grating, which with some difficulty I pushed
open, and found myself in a large chamber. On
the opposite wall there appeared to be a faint glimmer
of light, and to it I proceeded. I touched the spot,
and it felt like the side of a tent, and, in truth, I found
that it was a curtain, covering an aperture. I pulled
it aside, and a broad pale light burst upon me through
the opening, which also gave me a view of another*
and far larger chamber than that in which I stood.
“ The room into which I looked was a vast gallery,
w r hieh stretched its dreary vista almost beyond the
sight. The floor was of black marble, and the sides
of polished porphyry. Along the walls thrones were
ranged at equal spaces, to an interminable distance.
Those on one side were all occupied, except the
nearest, which bore the name of Zamor, but which
his late penitence and imperfect reparation had saved
the ancient conqueror from occupying. The throne
opposite to this—the first in the vacant line—-was
inscribed ‘Alexander.’ And, O Perdiccas ! could I
speak rvith the tongue of one of those Athenian poets
whose renown will be as great as mine, I should yet
be unable to express the tithe of that horror which
seized me when I looked upon the tenants of those
other thrones, and saw that a similar one was destined
for me ! It is not that they had an aged or a barbaric
appearance—though their hairs were white, and their
brows haggard, and their dresses were those of the
East and of the North—but their faces were marked
with a still desperation, and their bodies settled in a
calm agony, of which I had no previous conception.
I have often looked upon death ; but no pangs from
the sword, nor from the torture, ever seemed to me
more than a slight discomfort compared to the suf-
ferings of those mighty and glorious warriors. They
sat motionless as the rocks on the banks of Phlegethon ;
but it w r as the tranquillity of an endurance which feels
that it would be hopeless to attempt escape. The eyes
of some of them were nearly closed, and there seemed
no light in their countenances, but a dull dead glare
which escaped from beneath their shadowing eyelids.
There was one hoary head and swarthy cheek, with
a diadem of jewels, and the Egyptian beetle on his
breast, and I knew the presence of Sesostris. And
there was ancient Belus, with the star of the Baby-
lonian wizards on his brow, and leaning his awful
head upon his hand. And there was the warrior
deity of those Scythians whom in my boyhood I
subdued, clothed in wolf-skins, but with a cuirass on
his breast, and a crown of iron around his scarred
forehead. Hercules, too, whom we have dreamed a
god, leaned upon his club in anguish, which, though
silent, was more horrible than the pangs he endured
from the robe of Nessus; and a greater than he, cr


than all the rest, shewed the writhen features and
sunken cheeks of long-sustained suffering beneath
those emblems of mysterious strength, the moonlike
horns of Ammon. There was one spirit, and but one,
in whom the fiery energy of his nature was not re-
pressed by the tremendous fate to which he was sub-
jected—the Greek who in his youth was victor over
Asia, the fleetest, the most beautiful, the bravest, the
most unhappy, the demigod Achilles. His eyes still
shone like stars amid the burning halo wherewith his
head was of old encircled by Minerva, and which
still beamed around him, as if in mockery of those
white lips compressed and agitated with a paroxysm
of affliction too mighty for even the slayer of Hector
to master it. In the shield which leaned against his
knees, I saw not the images of the harvest and the
dance, but the reflection of the hero’s immeasurable
pain.
“ The feet of each of these terrible shadows were
placed upon an image of the world ; and before my
throne I saw a similar attribute. My empire seemed
to clasp with its boundary an enormous portion of the
earth ; but its limits were faint and wavering, and
methought at every instant they shrank and broke
asunder. Above the thrones were trophies; but in
the midst of each of them, that gray, stern Destiny,
who, from its iron cave, in some distant planet, sends
forth the silent blasts that sway the universe, had
fixed some emblem of mockery, shame, and evil; the
mowing ape, the crawling worm, the foulness of the
harpy, the envenomed slime of the serpent, shewed
themselves among the spoils, weapons, crowns, and
banners of royalty and conquest. And over all this,
a ghastly light was shed from the eyeless sockets.of
skeleton warders, who waited upon the enthroned
victims.
“ Can you wonder, my friend, that I felt a horror
which swords, and flames, and menacing millions
could not inspire, when I gazed upon the eternal
agonies of those beings, so dead to all but misery 1
My eyes almost failed to see, and rny feet to stand,
when I turned from them to mark the throne which
bore so deeply engraven on its granite pedestal, the
name of ‘ Alexander.’ From that hour my nature
has changed. I have not had the resolution to yield
up my conquests, and disrobe myself of my greatness ;
but I have sought to lose the memory of my former
deeds and future doom in revelries and intoxications,
which, at last, have brought me death; though they
have never bestowed forgetfulness. I shall soon be
among those dreary and tormented shadows of de-
parted power and dearly bought renown. Take you
this ring,” (and he gave him the emblematic signet,)
“ ail d when you look upon it, remember, that not the
image you see upon it, of immortal life and unbroken
happiness, will dwell with the remains of kings and
conquerors, but the polluting earth-worm and the
stinging scorpion.” His voice had grown hoarse
and broken ; and he proceeded slowly and feebly :
“ Though I have failed to profit by the lesson, thus
much have I been taught by Zamor.”
He never spoke again. He left for his generals,
the slavery of Greece and the distraction of the world ;
to Perdiccas, a counsel by which he had not profited
himself; to Abra, a desolate existence and a broken
heart. And so did he perish at Babylon, whose
boyhood had sped so blithly among 'the hills of
Macedonia.
Varieties.
Freemasonry. —Tt was symbolical of Noab, who entered
into the ark in one year, remained enclosed a year, and was
emancipated from his confinement, or re-born, in the third
year, Much confusion arose, in the mythology of the ancient
world, from this doctrine. The aspirant, like Noah, is sup-
posed to have Jived in the old world, and was hence esteemed
a venerable old man : but he was new-born from the mysteries,
as Noah was from the ark, and hence he was considered but
an infant. Noah formed the ark, and it was consequently
represented as his daughter; but he was united with the ark,
and she was taken for his wife; and ultimately he was born
from the aik, which from this circumstance sustained the
character of his mother. Again, when he is said to die, the
ark is his coffin; when a child, it is his cradle ; and when he is
supposed to sleep in deep repose during the prevalence of the
waters, it is his led. The confusion this would necessarily
create, could not be reconciled without having recourse to a
plurality of deities; and, therefore, in Greece, as the father of
the female principle or ark, Noah was temed Saturn ; as her
husband, he was termed Jupiter; as her son, Bacchus ; and
when the solar and the arkite superstitions were connected, he
became Apollo; and soon branched off into a number of
collateral deities, which peopled their imaginary heaven, and
tended to mystify their system of religion, and place it entirely
out of the reach of ordinary comprehension,— Dr. Oliver.
Freemasons' Quarterly Review for January.
The Withered Leaf. —How full of poetry is a withered
leaf! How full of those delicate associations; how prolific
of all those tender thoughts, in which the elements of poetry
truly consist. More especially at the spring-time of the year,
when its fellows are all flaunting, and shining, and rustling in
their new and dainty attire. At such a period, to view a pale
and withered leaf, shivering in the morning breeze, on its
tender spray ; or, to encounter it, in your walk, coming tilting,
in gentle eddies, to the ground, no more to be courted or
admired, by any of the beautiful creatures which spring has
brought into existence, but, to be trodden underfoot of man
and beast; made the refuse of creation, a hiding place for the
worms of the earth, is a sight calculated to awaken, in every
gentle heart, deep and pensive feelings.
“ A leaf in sear yet wet with vernal dew,”
though but a leaf, has, I am free to confess, to me, a something
so much of sacredness about it, that I am led, involuntarily, to
step aside, as I encounter it on my pathway. I could not
tread upon its gentle form, as it lay, beautiful in death, upon
its lowly bed, with the pure, fair sun-light of a June morning
playing around its couch, as if to allure it again into life, with-
out feeling that I was manifesting a degree of insensibility that
would shock my sense of decorum. A withered leaf fell the
other morning at my feet; it had been blighted by an insidious
disease, which an insect had fixed on its tender frame. 1 took
it up : and, as I gazed on its pallid form, bethought myself of
the many maternal eyes which were, at that moment, weeping
over the blighted forms of lovely—much loved babes, who had
perished with the morning light, after many hours of painful,
anxious watching. I bethought me of the many agonized fathers,
who, at that moment, beside the grave, or the death-bed of some
promising boy, whose life had been nourished with care, and
whose expanded mind had been watched and cultivated with
all the assiduity which enlightened parental affection could
suggest, were pouring out their souls in grief, and “refusing
to be comforted.” I bethought me of the many gay circles of
blooming faces and buoyant hearts, out of which the angel of
death, during the night that had passed, had snatched some
beautiful creature, to whom all hearts paid willing homage,
and for whom all tongues expressed sincere admiration. I be-
thought me of the many domestic groups who were at that
moment starting up from their morning repast with grief and
dismay, as the unexpected decease of some relative or friend
was suddenly announced to them. I bethought me that my
own life was falling into the sear: that the children, playing
among the graves, in the church yard before me, v. ere but as
the delicate flowers of spring peering among the old withered
leaves at my feet, and I could not restrain my heart from throb-
bing in my bosom. I gently laid the frail object of my solici-
tude down on the sunny bank of a little lake, beside which I
stood, and, as I proceeded on my ramble, could not help
ejaculating to myself, as rr.y thoughts ran out in a tbousai d
channels, to which they were directed by the little incident
which had just occurred,
“ How full of poetry is a withered leaf!”
—Recreations in Retirement ; By an Old Tradesman.


The Moralist.
WISE AND IGNORANT.
The gifts of the understanding are the treasures of God; and
he appointeth to every one his portion, in what measure seem-
eth good unto himself.
Hath he endued thee with wisdom ? hath he enlightened
thy mind with the knowledge of truth ? communicate it to the
ignorant, for their instruction; communicate it to the wise,
for thine own improvement.
True wisdom is less presuming than folly. The fool is
obstinate, and doubteth not; he knoweth all things but his
own ignorance.
The pride of emptiness is an abomination ; and to talk much,
is the foolishness of folly. Nevertheless, it is the part of
wisdom to bear impertinence with patience, and to pity ab-
surdity.
Yet be not puffed up with thine own conceit, neither boast
of superior understanding; the clearest human knowledge is
but blindness and folly.
The wise man feeleth his imperfections, and is humbled ; he
laboureth in vain for his own approbation : but the fool
peepeth in the shallow stream of his own mind, and is pleased
with the pebbles which he sees at the bottom: he bringeth
them up, and showeth them as pearls ; and with the applause
of his brethren delighteth he himself.
He boasteth attainments in things that are of no worih ; but
where it is a shame to be ignorant, there he hath no under-
standing.
Even in the paths of wisdom he tpileth after follv ; and
shame and disappointment are the reward of his labour.
But the wise man cultivates his mind with knowledge: the
improvement of arts is his delight, and their utility to the
public crowneth him with honour.
Nevertheless, the attainment of virtue he accounteth as the
highest learning; and the science of happiness is the study of
his life.
MORAL MAXIMS.
ALPHABETICALLY ARRANGED.
No. 19.
Attempt not to fly like an eagle with the wings of a wren.
Attempt not too hastily, nor pursue too eagerly.
At the gate which suspicion enters, love goes out.
A turn of the key is better thaq the conscience of a friar.
At weddings and funerals, friends are discerned from
kinsfolk.
A vain hope flatters the heart of a fool.
Avarice generally miscalculates ; and, as generally, deceives.
A virtuous mind, in a fair body, is like a fine picture, in a
good light.
Avoid all low company, in parts, in manners, and in merit.
Avoid a slanderer as you would a scorpion.
Avoid that which you blame in others.
A wild goose never laid a tame egg.
Wisdom consists not so much in the acquiring of many
languages, as in the right use of one.
The words of the wise are as diamonds in the rough :
fools pick them up only to cast them away again as valueless.
Speaking and Hearing.— He who talks, only sows: he
who listens, reaps.
Books.— ln books, as in society, there is good and bad
company: every oyster does not contain a pearl.
Literary Writers. —Where one man examines, verifies,
and tests, a statement, a hundred men quote, a thousand re-
quote, and a myriad believe without examination or care !
Niblock.
Friends. —We meet in society many with whom we are
struck oil the very moment of introduction ; but as our
intercourse advances, the tinsel wears off, and we find, at best,
our intimacy does not improve. There may be others in the
same company—less attractive, perhaps, in appearance - but
whose “ inner man” is sterling, and whose friendship far more
valuable than that of their more showy competitors. We
love them the more we know them, until at last love and
esteem are both lost in admiration.— A Dreamer.
Gold.—lt is worshipped in all climates, without a single
temple, and by all classes without a single hypocrite.— Colton.
lindness.—-A prison, from whose blank walls there is no
escape.
Select Poetry.
YOUTH AND AGE.
Verse, a breeze mid blossoms straying,
Where Hope clung feeding, like a bee—
Both were mine ! Life went a-Maying
With Nature, Hope, and Poesy,
Win. n I was young!
When I was young!—ah, woful when!
Ah, for the change ’twixt now and then!
This breathing house not built with hands,
This body that does me grievous wrong,
O’er airy cliffs and glittering sands,
How lightly then it flash’d along!
Like those trim skiffs, unknown of yore,
On winding lakes and rivers wide,
That ask no aid of sail or oar,
That fear no spite of wind or tide, —
Nought cared this body for wind or weather,
When Youth and I lived in’t together.
Flowers are lovely! Love is flower-like;
Friendship is a sheltering tree ;
O, the joys that came down shower-like,
Of Friendship, Love, and Liberty,
Ere I was old!
Ere I was old!—ah, woful ere!
Which tells me, Youth’s no longer here!
O Youth ! for years so many and sweet,
’Tis known, that thou and I were one,
I’ll think it but a fond conceit—■
It cannot be, that thou art gone!
Thy vesper-bell hath not yet toll’d ;
And thou wert aye a masker bold!
What strange disguise hast now put on,
To make believe, that thou art gone?
I see these locks in silvery slips,
This drooping gait, this alter’d size ;
But springtide blossoms on thy lips,
And tears take sunshine from thine eyes!
Life is but thought; so think I will
That Youth and I are house-mates still.
COLERIDGE.
TO MUSIC.
TO BECALM HIS FEVER.
Charm me to sleep, and melt me so,
With thy delicious numbers,
That being ravish’d, hence I go
Away in easy slumbers.
Oh, make me weep
My pains asleep,
And give me such reposes,
That I, poor I,
May think thereby
I live, and die, ’midst roses.
Fall on me like a silent dew,
Or like those maiden showers,
Which, at the peep of day, do strew
A baptism o’er the flowers.
Melt, melt my pains
With thy soft strains,
That, ease unto me given,
With full delight
I leave this light,
And take my flight for heaven.
HERRICK.
SONG.
[in THE “ MERCHANT OF VENICE.”]
Tell me, where is Fancy bred,
Or in the heart, or in the head?
How begot, how nourished ?
Reply. It is engender’d in the eyes;
With gazing fed; and Fancy dies
In the cradle where it lies.
Le; us all ring Fancy’s knell:
I’ll begin it.—Ding dong, bell,
Ding, dong, bell.


iSoticc.
The Editor does not hold himself responsible for the opinions and
assertions contained in the correspondence and contributions in-
serted in the Colonial Literary Journal.
Notice to ©orrtsponUcnts.
We can insert only the smallest portion of the verses sent U 3 by
W. P.
We sincerely thank our correspondent at Porphyry Point, and
shall be glad to hear from him on future occasions.
A Whist-player’s letter was received too late for insertion this
iveek.
“ Helen’s” poem shall be inserted.
Our Correspondents are requested to observe that the Colonial
Literary Journal Office is this day removed to No. 316, Pitt-
street North, (opposite A. Foss’ Chemical Drug, and Grocery
Establishment) where all communications to the Editor may be
forwarded (post paid).
THE CHARACTERS AND PROPERTIES OF
ACIDS.
It has been stated in a former article, that every
material burnt to ashes is become an oxide, and will
no longer burn so as to emit flame. Nevertheless,
there are many varieties of heat which may again be
applied to such substances, whereby new compounds
are formed, and the residue is become an acid. As
in this colony science is in its veriest infancy, it is
not the purpose of these contributions to the Colonial
Literary Journal, to enter into chemical arrangements
to any extent, but simply to lead those persons, who
have time and talent, to meditate upon the probabilities
that this land affords much opportunity of research,
and that, by research, much profit may be obtained.
The numerous combinations and the leading pro-
perties of acids are too obscure to be more than
lightly or superficially classed, to meet the capacities
of those persons who have not studied them practi-
cally, and as a branch of their individual education.
Acids are distinguished according to the mineral,
vegetable, or animal substances from which they are
obtained. The list is exceedingly numerous. Every
acid takes its name from the substance whence it is
extracted, which is called its base, as carbon, carbonic
acid ; nitre, nitric acid ; sulphur, sulphuric acid ;
&c., &c. Almost all acids will change blue vegetable
colours to red, and all have a tendency to decompose
the substances with which they come in contact.
Carbonic acid is more widely distributed in nature
than any other, it is formed in the process of burning,
in the action of breathing, and in the fermentation of
vegetable substances. It is found in pits and caverns,
and as it is heavier than common air, it remains at
the bottom. Persons have been suffocated by going
down into such pits, it is therefore necessary and
usual to send down a lighted candle previous to des-
cending, and if it is not extinguished the pit may be
entered. Suffocation has also taken place from re-
spiring the fumes of burning charcoal. The effer-
vescence of mineral waters has also reference to this
acid ; and porter, ale, cyder, soda water, champagne
and other beverages, derive their briskness from the
same source.
Oxalic acid exists ready formed in wood sorrel,
from which it derives its name of salt of sorrel. It
was originally denominated the acid of sugar or
saccharine acid, because it was, and is still, obtained
from that substance. Oxygen owes its name to the
property it possesses of producing a sour taste in the
combinations of which it forms the base. Oxalic acid
is employed by calico printers, to destroy or lighten
colours which are produced by iron. Ironmoulds
on linen, furniture, and instruments, are removed by
it with great facility. Its crystals partly resemble
epsom salts, and as it is one of the most virulent poisons
it should be carefully guarded. Chemists use it as
a test liquor to discover the presence of lime in
mineral waters, as it separates that earth from all
other bodies.
Nitric acid w r as formerly called aqua fortis. It is
formed during the putrefactive process in animals and
vegetables, and chemically by the action of sulphuric
acid on nitre, or as commonly called saltpetre. It is
a sour, corrosive liquid, with an offensive smell, and
is capable of giving a yellow colour to the skin. It
is also formed from the nitrogen in the air, during
the explosion of oxygen and hydrogen gases. It
attracts water from air, and heat is evolved if it
is mixed with water. Nitric acid is inestimably
valuable in reference to its property of dissolving
metals.
Sulphuric acid is an article of great consumption.
It is an important agent in chemistry, as it displaces
other acids in their combinations. It is formed from
sulphur and nitre, is extremely acrid and caustic, and
acts speedily on the skin, leaving a painful sensation
like a burn from the fire. It has so strong an attrac-
tion for water, that its bulk will increase from three
parts to four in a day, if exposed to damp air ; but if
it is suddenly mixed with water, there will ensue a
mutual condensation, and much heat will be evolved.
The mixture of sulphuric acid with ice or snow will
produce immediate liquefaction. The chief consumers
are the manufacturers of soda and common salt,
chloride of lime for bleaching, calico printing, black-
ing, soda water, and various pigments. It is also
used by the refiners of gold and silver, and the puri-
fiers of oil and tallow, and medicinally in numerous
varieties. Sulphuric acid is a limpid, colourless, in-
odorous fluid of an oily consistence, and a poisonous
nature.
As there are 172 acids in the chemical formula,
it is unnecessary to enter into their numerous origins
and uses, for whether animal, vegetable, or mineral,
the principle of an acid is the same, differing only
in the strength of their acidity. Lemon, citron and
lime acids are familiar to all, so is also the acetic
acid, though perhaps not by its classical name.—
Acetic acid or vinegar, is found in the juices of many
plants, it is also formed spontaneously during the
changes which saccharine matters undergo during
fermentation. In those countries where grapes grow
plentifully, vinegar is made from wine. In England
it is made from malt. The wine employed for this
purpose is such, as has already become sour ; never-
theless the better the wine, the better the vinegars.
The principal part of the operation is performed by
nature, the art < onsists in the arrangements of situa-
tion, temperature and moisture, and yeast is added
to the fermenting substance to increase the excitement.
Vinegar is the least destructible of vegetable acids,
oxalic acid the most so. There are three grades of
vinegar, common, distilled, and acetic acid, which is
the strongest. The easy solution of lead by vinegar,
and the salt called sugar of lead, used in the arts,
especially for dyeing, are also well known.
B.


PHRENOLOGY.
[For the Colonial Literary Journal.]
No. XIV.
We have already briefly adverted to the developement
of Cromwell, in pointing out how his remarkable
force of character was owing to his very large size
of brain. In him, qualities of an opposite nature were
developed in a very remarkable manner. His fana-
ticism in early life was the consequence of his large
religious faculties, influenced and directed by the puri-
tanical spirit of the age, but which, not being supported
by principle, easily gave way under the influence of
unlimited power, acting upon a mind naturally am-
bitious, and composed of strong animal passions. He
indulged his powerful propensities at first under the
colour of serving his superior faculties ; but all re-
serve having been thrown off by his usurpation of the
supreme power, he showed himself in his darker
colours by his lawless gratification of them. Through-
out his whole career may be seen the conflicting in-
fluence of his good and bad qualities. His religious
zeal in the early part of his history was no doubt
sincere, but was soon clouded by his cruelty and
hypocrisy ; and in the latter part of his usurpation,
the terrors of his guilty conscience, and the upbraid-
ings of his better spirit, contributed to render his
latter days a scene of unremitted misery, and a
terrible lesson to those who sacrifice their better
feelings to the gratification of their vicious pro-
pensities.
Whoever has looked upon a bust or portrait of the
immortal Milton, (and who is there that has not'?)
must have been struck with the prodigious size of
brain which he possessed, his remarkably massive
and expanded frontal developement, and especially
his prodigious developement of Ideality. Such an
organization of brain, combined with a first-rate edu-
cation and a superior temperament, w T as worthy of the
profoundest scholar of his time, and the erudite poli-
tical controversialist, and above all, of the author
of the immortal epic poem, which has rendered his
name so illustrious—w r hich has raised the English
language to equal pre-eminence ivith the Greek —and
ivhich has entitled its author to take his seat beside
the father of poetry, the author of the Iliad —equal to
each other in genius, and alike in misfortune. If we
attend closely to the developement of Milton, we
shall perceive that the comparative developement of
Destructiveness is greater than that of Benevolence,
his head being much more remarkable for its breadth
at Destructiveness than for its height at Benevolence,
and the bitterness w r hich pervaded the controversial
writings of Milton, especially those against Salmasius,
can hardly be credited. Salmasius exulted in the
thought that he had deprived Milton of his eye sight,
the loss of which was ascribed to his excessive study ;
and Milton paid the retort courteous, by rejoicing at
his having hastened the death of Salmasius, which
was said to have been caused by the severity with
which he w r as treated by his opponent in one of his
pamphlets. In numerous passages in Paradise Lost,
Milton delineates the faculty of Destructiveness in a
striking manner : the speech of Moloch,
The strongest and the fiercest spirit
That fought in heaven, now fiercer by despair,
is the very language of Destructiveness.
The developements of the two great English philo-
sophers, Bacon and Locke, form a striking contrast.
Combined with very large perceptive and reflective
faculties, the organ of Ideality was very largely
developed in the head of Bacon, and his style is in
the highest degree poetical, remarkable for the ima-
gination and refined taste displayed in it, and for the
most correct and profound judgment. The head of
Locke, on the other hand, although presenting a large
frontal developement, was peculiarly deficient in
Ideality. His writings, though characterized by a
profound spirit of philosophy, are very dry and un-
inviting, and especially deficient in poetical merit.
He was accustomed to depreciate the value of poetry,
and fo regard it as a worthless talent. The splendid
cerebral organization of Bacon was yet not accompa-
nied with a due developement of Conscientiousness,
his degradation at court having been caused by his
receiving bribes. Thus we see how the greatest
talents are worthless without the possession of honesty
of principle, which ought to prized far above any in-
tellectual endowment.
ÆNEAS.
Original Poetry.
THE MORN OF MAY.
Dedicated to John Rae, Esq.: By the Australian
Shepherd.
I sing not of bright noble deed,
Of Knight of Palestine—
No warrior bold can e’er have need
Of humble lay of mine ;
My song is of the golden light,
When rose the God of day
On seraphs’ wings of dazzling light,
To hail the Morn of May !
To aid my lyre, the passing breeze,
That sighing floats.along,
Pours forth in liquid harmony
A wild melodious song,
Amid the bright and countless leaves
That deck spring’s smiling bowers;
While seated on Earth’s lap of green,
Amid the dewy flowers.
The forest birds speed merrily—
Hark, how they blythely sing!
Their note of gladness grateful speaks
Kind welcome to the spring;
And flowers whose bright eyes wave with light,
And blossoms on the spray,
Dance on the breeze with lightsome heart
To greet the Morn of May !
They ’mind me of my Highland home,
Of many a glen and hill,
Whose stirring scenes by flood and field
Ring thro’ my bosom still!
And tho’ those happy hours are fled,
And life’s dream passed away,
Still joy unto my soul does bring
The sunny Morn of May!
For nature’s face ae’ wears a smile
As in our days of youth,
Ere yet our hearts knew wordly guile,
Or lips breathed an untruth ;
When every thought within our breast
(In life’s spring buoyant g3y)
Was pure as are the lovely flowers
That bloom in merry May.
But yet, her smile can never win
That freshness to the heart
Which childhood o’er our sen’ses flings,
A spring ne’er to depart!
The sun, the flowers! more fair may be,
And blossoms on each spray,
But where are they—the flowers we culled
In childhood’s merry May!


The streamlet from its mountain home
Flows onward clear and bright,
As when upon its banks we played
On many a lovely night!
But where, oh where, are they! the friends
With whom we loved to stray —
The wild flowers bloom above their graves
Still fresh in merry May !
AN EXTEMPORE TRANSLATION OF HORACE.
Book 1. Ode 14.
O vessel of the State, unheard of storms
Thee into seas unknown will soon impel.
How great thy peril! Boldly make for port,
See’st not how ’reft of rowers is thy side ?
Is not thy mast by boist’rous Afric torn ?
Do not thy yard-arms hideously resound ?
Nor, without cables, can thy keel outride
The surf imperious, having no whole sail.
Thou hast no gods, whose aid, when danger-pvest,
Thou may’st again invoke : And, though a pine
Of Pontus’ growth, the topmost of the wood,
In vain thou tell’st thy race and bootless name.
The timid sailor trusts not painted prows :
Beware thou prove not to the winds a sport,
Thou, late the object of my anxious fear,
Now my desire, and my affection strong.
May’st thou avoid those seas disperst among
The sparkling circle of the Cyclades !
N.
LUTHER’S HYMN.
Am. 21. Sonntage nach dem Feste]
der Dreyeinigkeit 1841. J
A. C.
[a free translation.]
“ Ein feste Burg ist unser Gott.”
A stronghold is the Lord our God,
An arm of might unfailing,
He freely hath delivered us
From ev’ry foe assailing.
The Ancient Wicked Foe,
Unequall’d here below
In malice, skill and pow’r,
Relaxes not an hour,
Though not as yet prevailing.
We of ourselves are void of strength,
Our struggles unavailing;
God’s Chosen One—he fights for us,
When nigh to yield and failing.
Him Jesus Christ we call,
The Righteous King of all,
Of glorious Hosts the Lord,
And God alone ador’d,
And evermore prevailing!
When at the World’s unhallow’d rage
Our fear-struck hearts are quailing,
Or ’gainst seductive wiles we pray
Our sinful lusts bewailing,
Jn fear or grief we know
The Prince, who rules below,
Obeys the sovereign word
Of our Sustaining Lord,
Th’ Exalted, All-prevailing!
Lord ! in thy season speak that word
Which spoken is unfailing—
Meantime be with thy Spirit nigh
Thy presence bright unveiling !
Our foes may then destroy
Our dearest earthly joy,
Still vain is their success—
The Kingdom we possess,
O’er Death and Hell prevailing.
EXQUISITE EPITAPH.
Wotton’s two lines “upon the death of Sir Albert Morton’s
wife” have been justly celebrated as containing a volume in
seventeen words :
“ He first deceas’d ; she, for a little, tried
To live without him—liked it not, and died.”
CORRESPONDENCE.
To the Editor of the Colonial Literary Journal.
In mercy spare them while they do their best,
To make as much waste paper as the rest.
Sir — You are doubtless aware that, of late years, the tide of
popular feeling has set strongly in favour of literature and the
polite arts, among a numerous class of embryo writers and
artists in this city. Indeed, the fact may not be here insisted
upon, since it is universally acknowledged that many of our
respectable stationers —myself among the rest, for I may here
inform you that I am a stationer and bookseller—have, by
means of this growing feeling, been gradually borne on its
genial current to our present moderate fortunes. But, Sir,
apologising for the intrusion, I feel myself called upon to
inform you, that if you continue to pursue the course of your
late article of the 10th instant, you will eventually either run
us aground through your criticisms, or becalm our sail in the
unfrequented latitudes of reason and good sense ; either of
which would be equally destructive to our prospects.
I do not here mean to raise any objection as to the accuracy
of your remarks in the article referred to ; on the contrary, I
entirely concur in their aptitude, and think also they do you
much credit. This, I say, not that I flatter you—l am not in
the vein—but because I love truth, and am one of those con-
scientious people who would, at any time, hear it spoken in
preference to falsehood ; yet, with this proviso, notwithstanding,
that in certain cases, truth be introduced only for the detection
of falsehood. And do not think me selfish or illiberal through
this declaration, or that I am not borne out by good authority.
I have lately met with a philosopher who informs me that
truth is unquestionably an impertinence where falsehood has
not pre-existed ; nay, that truth loses her greatest attribute if
not preceded by that venerable pioneer. But, whither am I
going? In addition to losing my customers through your
animadversions, I am likely also to lose myself in these sage
reflections. I will to the point: and, Sir, the subject matter of
what I would say, is this—that your article of the 10th instant
wherein, in the abstract, you discourage all classes of literary
aspirants, whether general writers, prosaists, essayists, poets,
poetasters, or poetesses, by pointing out to them the possibility
of disappointment in any or all of their several pursuits—has
most veritably caused detriment to your correspondent’s tem-
poral concerns, in-so-much as the said aspirants have already,
almost without exception, laid aside the pen, and betaken
themselves to less intellectual employments, thereby leaving
many a fair ream of your correspondent’s folio and other
paper lying upon his shelves, undusted and unsold, that would
otherwise have been converted into useful dissertations, moral
treatises, sentimental sonnets, and the like valuable composi-
tions, for the enlightenment of the world, and the additional
stability of your correspondent’s coffers. This, Sir, your
wonted liberality will admit, is a grievance of no ordinary
kind ; yet, is it not the only one that will arise through your
thus immersing, as it were, in a chilly bath, the rising spirit
of the age. Apart from more important inconveniences, there
are also several other classes of honest tradespeople, like
myself, liable to its effects. I need only mention the dairymen,
the provision merchants, the grocers, and the tobacconists,
these will be subjected to an immediate advance in the article
of waste-paper ; to say nothing of the kite-flyers, trunk-makers,
and seedsmen ; and last, not least, the ladies’ curling-paper
and bustle -wadding. By the bye, I have been informed that a
certain publication of the day is invariably made use of for the
latter purpose, whether out of respect or disrespect to the
learned editor I cannot say. They are, however, likely to pay
higher, in future, for these ornaments, or adopt the alternative,
and abandon them altogether. But I will not trespass further
on your space, by detailing all the particulars wherein I have
become a victim, nor inform you of the many noble pieces of
prose, and innumerable pieces of poetry, your article, has
brought to an untimely end through its blighting insinuations.
It was but yesterday, that a young gentleman, who had been
one of my best customers for gilt-edge and sealir.g-wax, and
whom I have known to write a dozen love-letters, and as many
sonnets, in a wee'f, told me in a most melancholy tone of voice,
he had resolved to try no more of either, as all his labour
hitherto had proved unsuccessful, adding, with a sigh of pitiful
resignation, that he positively feared his genius was not adapted
for that kind of writing ! I was at first a little astonished at
my young friend’s sudden change of manner, but was instantly
apprised from whence it proceeded by observing him produce


one of your papers, and in gloomy abstraction read over and
over again that offensive and very iil-judged article.
Want of talent, forsooth, and genius misapplied ! why, Sir,
while you talk thus lightly for your own amusement, you are
undermining the first principles of your profession, and sweep-
ing away the interests of a whole class before the invincible
sway of your ruthless pen. Pray relax your severity a little
in future on this point, by being less lavish of instruction, and
when again you feel inclined to be censorious, please graciously
to remember, that
Those who cannot write, and those who can,
All rhyme, and scrawl, and scribble, to a man !
With great respect, I have the honour to be, Sir, your most
obedient humble servant,
NICOLAS WAFER.
[We take our correspondent’s humorous letter in good part,
and feel almost inclined to be again a delinquent, if but to
provoke another epistle from him ; but, speaking seriously,
even if we had the influence supposed for us in our correspon-
dent’s letter, we should be sorry to use it with the slightest
feeling of bitterness or undue severity.
In order to clear ourselves from the charge of being actuated
by a too-critical judgment, especially as regards the poetic
effusions sent us for insertion, we shall lay before our readers,
in our next No., one or two extracts from rejected original
pieces.— Ed. C. L. J.]
To the Editor of the Colonial Literary Journal.
A Subscriber looks on the facts detailed below as remarkably
exemplifying the important results of combination, in a good
cause; and they moreover suggest what might be dene in this
colony, whether for education, or purposes more especially
religious.
From The Witness, an Edinburgh newspaper of May, 1844.
“ ‘ It was right that they should contemplate not merely what
had been done in their church, for the Sustentation Fund ; but
for other Christian objects. Now it was a startling fact, and
one which if it had been told them twelve months ago, would
not have commanded belief, that the amazing sum of nearly
half a million, had been given to the Free Church during the
year that had passed. About £230,000 had been expended in
church building, or was at that moment in course of being ex-
pended, then there had been raised for the Sustentation Fund,
a sum of at least 4270,000. In addition to this, there had been
subscribed £50,000 for the building of schools, &c; and then
it gladdened one’s heart to be able to tell, that no less a sum
than 32,000 had been given, for spreading the gospel in foreign
parts Now when they took this matter in detail, they
would find that it was not so great an effort after all. Let
them just contemplate their financial position in this view—
twelve months ago, 470 ministers left the Establishment in one
day, and they subscribed a deed, by which they demitted an
annual income of about £lOO,OOO. On the other hand, when
it was considered that the number of their adherents amounted
to a million of human beings, they could easily solve the pro-
blem, whether it was a difficult thing, for a million of people
to lift up what 470 men had laid down. These 470 men had
laid down £lOO,OOO and it surely could not be a difficult thing
for a million to lay their heads together, to raise the same sum,
and even after the million had raised this sum, which would
scarcely amount to £d. a week from each, there would after all
be no great reason for self-congratulation.’ After a few other
remarks in favour of encreased exertion, Mr. Tweedie concluded
amid loud cheering.”
LOCAL NEWS.
Parramatta. —We hear that it is the intention of the
enterprising firm of Messrs. J. and W. Byrnes, to erect a
Colonial Cloth Manufactory, in connexion with their steam
mills. We trust this step so long required, and we believe
wished for, will prove beneficial to the trade of the town.
Bathurst. —Much damage has here been done by the flood-
ing of the Lachlan River. Property to an alarming amount
has been destroyed, houses, furniture, cattle, sheep, and, more
serious still, several lives have been lost.
Berrima. —This district seems to have escaped much of
the damage done by the late rains. The crops are reported
to be in a thriving condition.
Lower Hawkesbury.— The same remarks, generally speak-
Bemma t 0 district, as well as to the district of
Gundagai. —Here, it appears, the rains have been productive
of the most devastating result, and much suffering has been
entailed on the settlers of this part of the country, Ly the very
unusually-high flooding of the river.
Newcastle. —This town has been considerably enlivened
by the visit of his Excellency the Governor and suite on
Thursday and Friday last. An address was presented to his
Excellency by the inhabitants.
Maitland. —On Saturday morning last, his Excellency,
Lady Gipps, and suite, embarked for Morpeth, where the steamer
arrived about half past ten. His Excellency was received by
the Magistrates of the district, and without delay proceeded
to East Maitland, accompanied by a numerous body of the
inhabitants in gigs and on horseback. Here, his Excellency
received and applied to an Address, and appears to have given
much satisfaction by the urbanity of his demeanour. Monday
morning was fixed for his visit to West Maitland.
Education. —A numerously attended meeting of the friends
of Education on the principles of the Church of England, was
held on Friday evening, in the Castlereagh-street School-room:
The Bishop of Australia in the chair. The speakers in addition
to the Chairman were, the Rev. Messrs. Walsh, Sconce, and
Allwood, Mr. Norton, and Mr. M. Metcalfe. Two resolutions
were passed, the one, protesting against the course pursued by
the Legislative Council, and pledging themselves to continued
opposition, and the, second thanking the Members of Council
who had voted in favour of the denominational system, and
urging them to oppose the Irish system by all the means in
their power. The meeting was very unanimous, and the feel-
ing excited was very strong. Several of the leading sup-
porters of the Irish system were present, attentively listening
to the arguments of the speakers.— Herald.
Dr. Leichart’s Expedition to Port Essington. —The
following is an extract of a letter from one of Dr. Leichart’s
party:—“Tiniba, October 1, 1844: This day we leave the
last white man’s abode, and commence our journey over an
“ undiscoverad country” from which we hope some travellers
may return. We intend to protract our journey vid Swan River.
New Government Nominee.— Mr. S. A. Donaldson, who
left this province by the last Shamrock, for Sydney, has been
offered by the Governor the seat in the Legislative Council
vacant by the resignation of Mr. Blaxland. — P. P. Herald.
Horses. —Extract of a letter dated Calcutta, sth August,
1844 : —“ The Neptinie has arrived at Madras, having lost six
or eight of her horses only, we believe, and we hear that the
whole have been sold there, but as yet the prices have not
transpired; we understand they are satisfactory. The William
Metcalfe, you report loading for this port with horses, has not
yet appeared; her horses would meet with a fair sale. > You
have doubtless heard of the result of the Henrietta's horses,
and we should hope that the prices obtained were encouraging,
having averaged between 700 and 750 dollars each.
horse, called Attila, (since dead,) sold for 2000 dollars. There
is a demand here to take off any extent of supplies of good
useful horses for harness and saddle, of fair blood and figure
and action, that are likely to be sent, without materially re-
ducing our prices. Our Government has also sent down a
commission to purchase horses for the cavalry. All this is
highly encouraging for your colony.”
Sylvester’s Mode of Waterproofing Walls. —At the
last annual meeting of the institute of British architects, a
communication was read from Mr. Ferrey, on Mr. Sylvester’s
process for rendering brick and porous stone impervious to wet;
stating several instances in which it had been used with suc-
cess. One case was that of a building on the sea-coast, almost
uninhabitable from the water which drove through the walls
during storms from the south-west, but which was rendered by
this process perfectly dry. In another instance, an experiment
had been made upon a cistern of Reigate stone, which had
served its purpose for three years without leaking. With re-
gard to the cost of applying the process, the expense upon a
large building, with a frontage of 100 feet, did not exceed 455.
The process in question was explained at the institute by Mr.
Sylvester, during the last session, but it may be useful to re-
peat that it consist of washing the brick or stone with a hot
solution of three-quarters of a pound of mottled soap in a gallon
of water, laid on even with a large brush. This wash, after
the space of twenty-four hours, is followed by a second, com-
posed of half-a-pound of alum, thoroughly dissolved in four
gallons of water. These materials are found to penetrate deep-
ly into the wall, and to leave on the surface a thin scaly integu-
ment, causing no discoloration, and in fact imperceptible,
except on a close inspection. Whether its effects are absolutely
permanent, there has not yet been experience to show, but its
renewal is so easy that the doubt can be no objection to its use.


COMMERCIAL REVIEW.
Commercial transactions of tlie past week have been few and
unimportant, the markets generally remain languid, as noticed
for some time past, and in the absence of all speculation, sales
are confined to immediate requirements and cash payments.
Sugar.—The recent importations have to a certain extent
paralyzed the market, and holders have submitted to a slight
decline in price, which may only be considered temporary.
Tea.—lTysonskin.—This market is very quiet and no sales
worth reporting, good black teas, at a low figure, readily find
purchasers.
Brandy.— A slight improvement may be noticed in the
spirit market owing to the re-shipment of a large quantity of
Brandy to England, per Eweretta. A lot of Hennessy’srealised
ss. 9d. per gallon.
Soft Goods.—Many articles in manufactured goods are
realizing good advances on invoice price—and selling at prices
remunerative to the importers. Other articles remain the
same as former quotations.
B. S. LLOYD
Commission Agent, Bridge-street
October SOtli, 1844.
Shipping Entdltgence.
ARRIVALS.
October 23.—The barque Chance, Captain Roxley, from
Manilla, with sugar, &c.
October 24.—The steamer Sovereign , Captain Cape, from
Moreton Bay, with tallow, wool, &c.
October 24.—The steamer Shamrock, Captain Gilmore, from
Port Phillip, with sundries.
October 25.—The brig Portenia, Captain Richards, from
Batavia, with sugar, &c.
October 25.—The schooner Martha and Elizabeth, Captain
Devlin, from Port Phillip, with potatoes, &c.
October 26.—The brig Palmyra, Captain Griffiths, from
Launceston, with wheat, &c
October 26.—The schooner Eagle, Captain Hodges, from
Circular Head, with potatoes.
October 26.—The schooner Shamrock, Captain Brown, from
Auckland, and the Bay of Islands, with oil, &c.
October 27.—The barque Lanchester, Captain Purchase,
from the Downs, with a general cargo.
October 27. —The missionary barque John Williams, Captain
Morgan, from the Downs, with missionary stores, &c.
October 27. —The schooner Lowestoft, Captain Campbell,
from Port Fairy, with wool, salt, &c.
October 27. —The brig Caroline, Captain Loten, from Hobart
Town, with potatoes, &c.
October 28.—The brig Martha, Captain Boustead, from
Launceston, with grain, &c.
October 28.—The brigantine Minerva, Captain Gatenby,
from Calcutta, with 30 Coolies and 11 Orphan boys.
DEPARTURES.
October 26.— I The Steamer Sovereign, Captain Cape, f o]
Moreton Bay, with sundries.
October 28.—-The brig Christina, Captain Saunders, foi
Port Phillip, with sundries.
E^ tober 3 °’~" The barque Greenlaiv > for London, Captair
October 30—The steamer Shamrock, Captain Gilmore, fo:
Loyd Town, Port Phillip, and Launceston.
October 30.—The American ship lantlie, Captain Wood
berry, for tbe Bay of Islands.
O jtober 30.—The brig Annie, Ca in Potter for Hongkong
jETAUTT SOCSSTY.
THE Annua l Meeting of the Auxiliary to the above Societ
will be held in the Independent Chapel, Pitt-street, o
Monday evening next, 4th November, at which all the frient
of Christian Missions are respectfully requested to be present.
The chair will be taken at seven o’clock.
,J h p Re n' Heath ’ Rev ' Messrs - Gi ". Sunderlan,
and Fowell, Missionaries now on their way from London, I
wmadt S s e ,het n et g Per ‘” e M ™^ h * **
The present is the jubilee year of the Parent Society.
A collection to be made at the close.
ATTESTS’
WFORD having made considerable and recent additions
• to his well selected stock of Artists’ Materials, begs
to invite the attention of the Ladies, Artists, and Amateurs of
Sydney, to the annexed List, feeling sure that lie has only to
state that they have been selected and shipped by Messrs.
Ackerman, Mordan, and Reeves, to warrant their being of
the best quality.
Ackerman and Reeves’ superfine water colours
Ackerman’s, Reeves’, and Mordan’s prepared drawing pencils
Ackerman’s sketching pencils—black, brown, grey, neutral tint
London and Bristol drawing boards
Crayon papers of various colours
Improved solid sketch books, rough and smooth paper
Sketching portfolios, with tin frames
Sable and camelhair brushes
Round and flat brushes, in tin
Prepared mill-boards, for oil painting
Prepared canvas, for artists
Oil colours, prepared in patent air-tight metallic tubes
Dry oil colours, finely ground in spirits, in half ounce and
one ounce packages, viz., ultramarine, French ultra-
marine, carmine, crimson lake, pink and brown madder, and
every colour in use for oil painting.
French hair tools
Poonah brushes—Miniature ivories
Venetian crayons, for drawing in imitation of water colours
Wolf’s CretaLaevi pencils, in cases and sets
Prepared chalks, white and black
Port crayons and stumps for chalks
Cartoon pencils, for drawing after the style of the old masters
Permanent white, flake white, ox gall, and liquid brown
Gold and silver, green and blue saucers
French tracing paper—Gold paper
Perforated card-board
Hand screens, for painting and needlework
Water colour preservative, for giving water colours the dura-
bility of oil, and for rendering them washable with soap
and water
Oil, moist, and water colours, in boxes, complete
White wood screens for transfer
Marking ink, requiring no preparation
T squares and parallel rules
Manifold writers—Berlin patterns
Envelope cases, handsomely fitted up
Albums, scrap-books, drawing-books, and portfolios
Ivory tablets, card cases, and pocket books
Drawing-books, and rudiments, in great variety
Lessons and examples in Poonah painting, with formulas and
directions for their use.
The Student’s Guide, or elements for drawing in perspective,
with directions for colouring and sketching.
W. F. has on hand a great variety of School-books, Account-
books, Copy-books, and Stationery of every description.
554, George-street, opposite the Bank of Australasia.
ii CKAJj&IiIXrCM:,
TO ENGLAND, IRELAND, SCOTLAND, AND ALL THE WORLD
BESIDE.
WALKER’S PATENT GROATS.
npHIS ARTICLE, if tested; will be found to contain mor
nutriment, than any similar article of the kind. I
Walker is prepared to prove that two thirds of the quantity c
the above, if made in a proper manner, will be equal in nourish
ment, and ol a thicker substance, than the usual quan’it
generally recommended by others in the directions for use."*
Another desirable property belonging to Walker’s Pater
Croats is, as regards the great safety for export—not liable t
that change which the English manufacture is, by turnin
sour on the voyage, avoided by the patent mode of preparatior
anu greatly aided by the spontaneous growth of the grai
grown m this Country; while free from the artificial cultur
which causes so much moisture in the farina of the Englis
grain, and scarcely ever eradicated or sufficiently prepared
_°«g h already is before the public to satisfy them tha
Walker s Farinaceous. Food, (for Children and for Persons wit
impared digestion,) ought not to be despised, and which fo
the future will be packed in Tin Canisters, in order to preserv
its most agreeable flavour. With the usual white label-
sealed and signed Edward Walker -— th at ° ni bei genuine
tpnin , S t 0 an ? extent wi " be iranM'liately at
tended to; any export order exceeding ten gross of eithe
areresold™ 5 ’ CaSh ’ and the remainder when the good
Manufactory, Old Botany Road.


REMOVAL,
l READING’S GENERAL PRINTING OFFICE is THIS DAY REMOVED from 13S, King-street,
J . to 316, Pitt-street North, (opposite to A. Foss’ Chemical Drug, and Grocery Establishment,) where every description
of PRINTING will be performed, as heretofore, with correctness, neatness, and dispatch. The Office of the
“COLONIAL LITERARY JOURNAL”
is also removed to the same place, where all communications intended for the above Journal are requested to be forwarded.
SJiLTIOrffAE. SCHOOL SOCZST7.
AT a Meeting of the General Education Committee, held
in the Town Hall, on the 26th October, 1844,
The Right Worshipful the Mayor, in the Chair;
The Report of the Provisional Committee having been read
and amended, it was unanimously adopted, as follows: —
The Provisional Committee appointed at the Meeting of
the General Education Committee of the 19th instant, to draw
up Rules for the government of the Society which it was then
agreed to form, having met accordingly and taken the subject
into consideration, hereby recommend the following Rules for
the adoption of the General Committee: —
Ist. That it is expedient and necessary that a Society be
formed, to be designated the “ National School Society, for
the City of Sydney and County of Cumberland.”
2nd. That the object of this Society shall be to use its best
exertions to carry out the views of the Legislature, as
embodied in the Resolutions agreed to by the Legislative
Council, on the 10th instant, recommending Lord Stanley’s
System of National Education in this colony, by establishing
and supporting Schools on the National System, within the
City of Sydney and County of Cumberland, wherever such
Schools are urgently required, and sufficient funds can be
raised in addition to grants from the Board of Education
for their establishment and support.
3rd, That an Annual Subscription of One Pound sterling,
‘payable either in advance, or by quarterly instalments, shall
entitle the Subscriber to the rights and privileges of mem-
bership in the said Society.
4t'n. That a General Meeting of the Society shall be held
annually, early in the month of January, in each year, at
such time and place as may be fixed on by the Committee
of Management, for the election of office bearers, and for
such other business as may come before if.
sth. That a Special General Meeting of the Society may be
held at any time on any occasion of emergency, on the
requisition of at least ten Members, addressed to the
Secretary; ten days notice of such meeting being pre-
viously given through the colonial press.
6th. That the business of the said Society shall be transacted
by a Committee of fifteen Members, (exclusive of a Trea-
surer and Secretary, who shall be Members ex officio,) of
which Committee five shall be a quorum; the said Com-
mittee and Officers to be elected at the Annual General
Meeting of the Society, and to submit to the next Annual
Meeting a detailed Report of their proceedings, including
a statement of the Treasurer’s Accounts, duly audited,
during the previous year.
7th. That five members of Committee shall retire annually, by
rotation, together with the Treasurer and Secretary, all'of
whom shall be eligible for re-election.
Bth. That it shall be the duty of the Treasurer to receive and
an account of all funds accruing to the Society, to
deposit the same in the Bank of Australasia, and to give
i cheques, signed by himself and the Chairman of Committee,
payable from such funds, for all disbursements previously
sanctioned by a vote of the Committee.
Bth. That it shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep a record
of the proceedings, and to conduct the correspondence of the
Committee, to issue notices of all meetings, and otherwise
to be under the direction of the Committee in all matters
relating to the business of the Society.
10th. That the Committee shall meet for the transaction of
business, on the first Wednesday of every month, or oftener
if necessary.
11th. That any person contributing not less than £25 (twenty-
five pounds) sterling, either in advance or by regular instal-
ments, within three years, towards the funds of the Society,
shall be a Life Member, and have the privilege of attending
and voting at all Meetings of Committee.
12tb. That none of these Rules shall be altered or amended,
unless by a resolution passed at one General Meeting of the
Society, and confirmed at another General Meeting called
for that purpose.
It was then unanimously resolved—
That the Society be now formed, and the preceding ru'es
adopted as its constitution.
That the Committee appointed at the School of Arts on the 7th
September, be appointed a Provisional Committee of the
Society until the first General Meeting in January next.
That J. P. Robinson, Esq., M.C., be requested to act as
Treasurer, and Mr. George A. Lloyd, as Secretary, until
the General Meeting.
That the primary object to which the attention and efforts of
the Society should be directed, in respectful co-operation
with the Board of Education, is the establishment of a Model
School in the City of Sydney, in which the National System
of Education may be brought into immediate and vigorous
operation, so as to afford a practical refutation of the numerous
misrepresentations and calumnies of its adversaries, and in
which candidates for the office of schoolmaster, to be pre-
viously approved of by the Board, may receive the requisite
instruction in the practical details of their future profession.
That the friends of General Education in the Towns of Parra-
matta, Liverpool, Campbell-town, Penrith, Windsor, and
Richmond, as well as in the more populous neighbourhoods
throughout the country, be respectfully invited to form
Auxiliary Societies in these localities, on the understanding
and condition that whatever funds they may respectively
raise for educational purposes, shall be expended exclu-
sively in their respective districts.
That the proceedings of this meeting be published once in each
of the following papers: Herald, Australian, Chronicle
Observer, Weekly Register, and Colonial Literary Jcurnal.
J. R. WILSHIRE,
Chairman.
All parties desirous of becoming Members of this Society
are requested to send in their names to the Treasurer,
Secretary, or any Member of Committee.
COOK WARB.
COMMITTEE ROOMS “COCKATOO INN,” SURRY HILLS.
THE full attendance of Mr. Tredale’s Committee is respect-?
fully invited to a Meeting which will be held at the
above place, THIS EVENING, at seven o’clock precisely.
R. GOWLAND,
Hon. Sec.
SOUI&KSS ELECTION.
TVfR. SILLITOE’S COMMITTEE having received
It JL promises of support which render the return of that
gentleman certain, earnestly request that the electors will
record their votes as early in the day as possible.
tSSOT The Members of Committee are requested to meet at
the City Hotel at seven o’clock THIS EVENING.
Agents for tills Journal.
Sydney, Mr. W. Jones, Circulating Library, Brickfield-hill.
Parramatta Mr. Hugh Taylor.
Windsor Mr. Walker.
Bathurst. Mr. Tress.
Best Maitland , Mr. Galloway.'
Camden, Campbelltown, Penrith, and
Liverpool Mr. C. Lester.
Gunning Mr . Hawthorne.
