

COLONIAL LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
“ NON TUA TE MOVE ANT, SED PUBLICA VOTA.”
Vol. 11. No. 40.]
SYDNEY, THURSDAY, MARCH 27, 1845.
[Pkice 4d.
CONSCIENCE TRAPS;
OR, SOUL-BIRDLIME.
[The following paper, from Niblock’s “ Teotuary and
Ritualist,” is introduced to the notice of our readers as a
partial continuation, and not-unedifying illustration, of our
last week’s leading article :—]
A few years ago, it was a very usual thing [in
EnglandJ to see a board, nailed up against a wall or a
fence, having painted on it, in very legible characters,
“ Man-traps and spring-guns are set in these pre-
mises.” Now, whatever we might have thought, or
still think, of the illegality of this mode of protecting
our fruit, or other property ; or of the inhumanity of
such a method of securing them from nocturnal de-
predators ; of the mercifulness, the honesty, the can-
dour, of such a notice there can be 'hut one opinion ;
and, consequently, be that was caught in one of these
“ steel-traps,” or shot by one of these “ spring-guns,”
had no one but himself to blame : lie had been openly
and plainly warned. So much for those snares, which,
before the Act for their suppression, were set to catch
or destroy the bodies of men.
But there is another kind of “ traps,” and those of
a far more dangerous and deadly kind ; “ set,” not
for the bodies, but for the souls of* men ; nor so much
in the “ gardens” or other “ premises” of ourselves
and of our neighbours, as in nearly everything we do,
and hear, and say ! They abound at our very tables !
They are spread for us by others, and for others by
us, in almost all our intercourse with each other!
And, although they are often invisible, ’till pointed
out, they may be seen, by the experienced and the
tender-conscienced, in almost every house in the three
kingdoms! These we shall call conscience-traps ;
and it is our earnest hope, that the attempt now made
to expose them, may lead to their immediate sup-
pression, and to their ultimate annihilation.
Although we “ have used” these “ similitudes,” it
is a sad reality, against which we are “ buckling on
our armour.” We are not “fighting a shadow,” or
“ beating the air.” We are whetting our tongues,
on purpose to speak, not only ardentia verba, “ in
words that burn, and thoughts that breathe but, if
we could, “ in terms more sharp than any two-edo-ed
sword; if, haply, we might lessen the evil com-
plained of; and under the influence of whose viscosity,
we have seen many a victim, for whom the net was
spread, and the trap was laid, by the great “ fowler”
and “deceiver” of souls, so caught and entangled,
through the agency of man, (alas ! Satan’s best ally,)
that we could not help thinking of that passage of
Shakespeare, which, a little altered to suit our pur-
pose, we will quote :
“ O wretched state ! O bosom black as death !
O [bird]-lime’d soul, that, struggling to be free,
Art more engage’d 1 Help, Saviour ! make essay !”
But, not to detain our readers any longer, we will,
at once, proceed to state plainly what we mean. And
we distinctly say, that, go or be where we will, and
meet whom we may, we are (1) asked questions, to
which few are bold enough, or sincere enough, to
give a true answer! We are (2) asked, on delicate
points, our opinions, which few dare to express! We
are (3) tempted, and wished, and expected, by many,
to answer to some enquiries, directly contrary to truth
and fact! In a word, as society is now constituted
and conducted, we are (4) by some considered as
“ unpolite,” as “rude,” and “plain-spoken,” (and
that as a reproach,) if we say “ yea” to what requires
“ yea,” or “ nay” to what requires “ nay.” Such
are some of the snares, which the mind’s eye sees
written up, not on the exterior, but at the table, and
in the parlour, of too many a Christian house in this
land, as if in these words : “ Conscience-traps are set
at this table.” “ There is death in the pot!” “ Soul-
snares abound in this company !” “ Beware of soul-
birdlime in this room !”
“ Surely.” says Solomon, “ in vain is the net spread
in the sight of any bird.” But man, less provident
and more venturesome, is more easily caught. Take
the following instances, as illustrations of what has
been advanced above.
1. The wife (or daughter) of the Rev. Mr. A. ac-
costs us with, “ Didn’t you like my husband’s (or
papa’s) sermon, to-day ? Was it not very convincing ?”
2. The friend of a pupil says to him, before his
tutor ! “ Well, I’m quite sure you’re a happy boy,
are n’t you ?”
3. “ You don’t say I am welcome, or, that you are
glad to see me,” says one, who is a frequent, expen-
sive, and troublesome guest; and that, perhaps, to a
poor host.
4. “Isn’t that a charming book” or “picture,”
“ person” or “ thing ?” says a connoisseur to a novice.
5. “ You must have read Milton, I know : how do
you like him ?” says a “ blue-stocking” to a youth.
6. “Do you prefer it?” says a lady, carving, to
one who from real politeness, (seated in the heart,)
takes a thing, for which he has no particular fondness ;
solely because he wishes to le'ssen her fatigue; or,
because, if all partake of one joint, there may be
none, of what he thinks the best, left for the carver;
or, because he sees the gourmands all eager for the


venison, the turtle, or the pine-apple, which he, there-
fore, refuses.
7. “ Shall we send the carriage for you?” says a
person, in the winter, to a family, whom to invite is
somewhat of a condescension ; and who live at a dis-
tance, and have no conveyance of their own.
8. “ Why didn’t you come at our dinner-hour?”
says one, off-handedly, to another, who came with
that very intention! but, mistook the hour; and,
chilled by a cold reception, “ dines with Duke Hum-
phrey !”
9. “Have you dined?—Are you quite sure you
have? Don’t say c yes,’ if you have n’t,” —all in a
breath, says another, to a person, who much dreads
giving trouble, as he finds he is too late; but dreads
a lie more !
10. “ I’m afraid I sit in your light,” says one;
who quite prevents another reading, writing, or
sewing.
11. “ Do you like that seat?—Are you quite com-
fortable? Would n’t you like to change?” is often
said to one ; who, yet, is not well off, for either hear-
ing or seeing.
12. “ Wont you stop and lunch with us?” wdien
the caller expected to be asked even to take dinner
and bed! —is not unfrequently heard.
This paper would be swelled to a volume, w r ere we
to dwell on the hypocrisy and cruelty, the satire and
insult, the meanness and falsehood, which are felt,
and shewn and practised, but concealed! or, rather
attempted to be concealed, in the daily intercourse of
man with man : we shall, therefore, for the present,
only select a few more of the most common and usual
conscience-traps, which are laid to catch the unwary.
1. “ Can you ride, comfortably , with your back to
the horses?”
2. “ Can I offer you any thing ? —Don’t say ‘ No.’ ”
3. “ Shall I get up a bottle of port for you?”
4. “ Would you object to my bringing my maid with
me? —I never travel without one.”
5. “ Of course , you’ve seen Miss E.’s last work?”
6. “ Which epic do you prefer —Milton, Virgil, or
Homer?”
7. “I hope you’ll come and see us, some of these
days”
8. “ You must be uncomfortable : do let me change
seats with you. —Do you really prefer that place?”
9. “ You don’t love me—do you, now? —I’m sure
you don’t.”
10. “ I’m afraid that dish is quite cold : do let me
send for some that is hotter. —You can't like it. ”
11. “ You’ve made a poor dinner.—l’m afraid you
don’t like boiled veal. —I wish I had known of your
coming.”
12. “I hope you were not offended at my rough
treatment of you, yesterday.—-I’m afraid you think I
slighted you.”
13. “ Which do you prefer to take; the desk or
the pulpit ?”
14. “ Wasn’t that a capital speech of the Go-
vernor’s ?”
10. “Have you any objection to a little sacred
•o i y
music f
16. “ Do you dislike sitting with your back to the
fire?”
17. “Do yon like that wine ? I imported it
myself.” *
18. “ Would you like a fire in your bed-room?
Do say.”
19. “Isn’t that a striking likeness?—Doesn’t it
speak ?”
20. “ I know you don’t like roast pork.—Shall I
get anything else for you'?—lt’s quite at hand.”
21. “ I hope you’ve not been kept waiting long !
Have you ?”
22. “ Will you oblige me with the loan of your
horse ?”
23. “ I know you won’t object to drinking after
me; now, will you'?”
24. Would you at all mind being left alone for a
few hours'?”
Stopt, not by a paucity of soul-ensnaring phrases,
but by other considerations, we exhort all heads of
families to sweep from their houses, these eye-sores;
(cob-webs for number, but fetters for strength ;) which
are woven and spread, by Satan, the great fowler, to
I catch the souls of men ; and we exhort all Christians
to “ speak every man truth with his neighbour:” not
in rudeness, but “in love” and courteousness : not
using “ a multitude of words,” in wdiich “ there
wanteth not sin but speaking “ a pure language,”
the language of “ sincerity and truthand thus
“ visit” each others’ “ habitations, and not sin !”
Biography.
DR. CARTWRIGHT.
Amid the series of illustrious inventors who appeared towards
the end of last, and the beginning of the present century, and
to whom Britain is mainly indebted for the foundation of her
manufacturing greatness, stands pre-eminer.t the name of Dr.
Edmund Cartwright. Less successful than Arkwright, because
not so practical in his habits, and more multifarious in his
schemes, and less celebrated than Watt, because his inven-
tions were not so strictly philosophical, nor capable of univer-
sal application, Dr. Cartwright did not begin to reap the fruits
of his ingenuity till his “better day” was past, and even then
not till the interference of his friends had satisfied a tardily
grateful country of his right to several inventions. His claims
now established, and his name ranked with those of Watt,
Arkwright, Hargreaves, and others, it may not be uninstruc-
tive to review the long and active life of a man whose inven-
tive ardour disappointment never damped nor success ever re-
laxed or rendered self-satisfied,
Edmund Cartwright, the fourth son of William Cart-
wright, Esq., of Marnham, Nottingham, was born on the 24th
April, 1743. He was educated under Dr. Clarke, a f the gram-
mar-school of Wakefield, where he early distinguished himself
for quickness of apprehension and proficiency in those classi-
cal studies peculiar to that period. In the choice of a profes-
sion, his youthful mind was inclined to the navy ; but two of
his brothers had been already designed for that service ; and
this fact, conjoined with his aptitude for learning, induced his
parents to decide that he should prepare for holy orders. He
accordingly commenced his academical career at Oxford,
when fourteen years of age ; and during the summer recess,
was placed under the private tuition of the Rev. Dr. Lang-
horne, the well-known editor of Plutarch’s Lives. Under this
tuition his progress was highly satisfactory; an enduring
friendship sprung up between pupil and instructor, and it is
remarked that, to the classical knowledge and literary taste
of his teacher, Dr. Cartwright was indebted for that neat and
finished style of expression which he employed in writing
even on the most trivial and familiar occasions. But how-
ever elegant and correct the instruction which the young
student then received, it was in no way connected with t e
after pursuits in which he so eminently distinguished himselt.


There was nothing in the lyrics of Horace or the hexameters
of Homer calculated to develop his mechanical genius ; and
it is well remarked by his biographer, “ had those various
sources of information been then accessible which are now
within the reach of every one who can read, or those popular
associations existed which, by uniting the results of enquiring
minds, serve at once to concentrate knowledge and diffuse
practical instruction, it is more than probable that the pecu-
liar bent of Dr. Cartwright’s genius would have sooner shown
itself, and that he would have aimed rather at reaping the
fruits of science than culling the flowers of poetry.” Be this
as it may, neither during his college course, nor for many
years afterwards, did he in the least degree direct his atten-
tion to science or machinery ; but we find him, like many
other youthful and vigorous minds, relieving his aspirations
after distinction by an assiduous cultivation of the muses. At
the early age of eighteen, Dr. Langhorne compliments him
on the “harmony and philosophical temper” of his verses;
and his brother John (afterwards Major Cartwright, M.P.)
solicits a perusal of his compositions. In 1770 Mr. Cart-
wright published “ Armine and Elvira,” a legendary tale,
which went through several editions in little more than a
year, and “ was greatly admired for the harmony of its num-
bers and the purity of its moral sentiment.” At this period
his pursuits were strictly literary and poetical, nor did the
tastes then imbibed ever forsake him. “ The occasional com-
position of poetry,” says his biographer, “ became to him in
after life a frequent solace under disappointments, and con-
tributed, with other mental exercises, to promote that cheer-
fulness of spirit for which, even in his most advanced age, Dr.
Cartwright was remarkable.”
In 1772 Mr. Cartwright married Alice, the youngest daugh-
ter and co-heiress of Richard Whittaker, Esq., of Doncaster,
and after ft is marriage resided first at Marnham, and subse-
quently at Brampton, in Derbyshire, to the perpetual curacy
of which he was appointed by the dean of Lincoln. From
Brampton he was promoted to the living of Goadby Marwood,
in Leicestershire, whither he removed with his family in 1779.’
Thus settled in life, the discharge of his ministerial duties
and the cultivation of literature, were the chief employments
of his life. In the former he was assiduous and exemplary
administering alike to the temporal and spiritual comfort of
his parishioners ; and it was during the weekly visitations of
his flock that the idea suggested itself of administering yeast
or other fermenting liquid in cases of putrid fever—a disco-
very which has since been of essential service in the practice
of medicine, In the cultivation of literature he was no less as-
siduous. It was about this time that he became a contributor
to the Monthly Review, then conducted by Mr Griffiths; be-
came acquainted with Crabbe the poet, with whom he after-
wards associated in terms of the most friendly intimacy ; and
corresponded with Sir William Jones and other distinguished
individuals. The farming of his little glebe was also a favour-
ite subject for his enquiring mind. With him it was one se-
ries of experiments ; and though these led at first to little
practical result, it will be seen that they afterwards became of
considerable utility, when the gratitude of his country enabled
him to spend the close of his life on his purchased farm of
Hollanden.
It was now the summer of 1784, and Dr. Cartwright had
attained the forty-first year of his age. “There was nothing-
in the pursuits of the first h-If year of his life calculated to
lead his mind to study the theory of mechanics, or in his
habits to bring him acquainted with their practical application.
His pursuits had been almost purely literary, and his asso-
ciates were as unknowing as himself in every thing relating to
manufactures. He was not only esteemed for the elegance of
his attainments, but he had also at that time a fair prospect of
advancement in his profession, and of obtaining a competency
for the liberal support of bis station in society. A circum-
stance altogether accidental now occurred, to occasion an
entire change in all his views, and to turn his mind into a
different direction, from which it never afterwards diverged.
Happening, in the summer of 1784, to be at Matlock, in Derby-
shire, he became highly interested in the progress of those
ingenious manufactures which not many years before had been
established in that immediate neighbourhood. The applica-
tion of machinery to the art of spinning was at that time a
novelty; and the splendid fortunes which some ingenious
mechanics who had been successful in introducing it were
supposed to be realising, seemed to hold out extraordinary
encouragement to the exercise of any inventive faculty that
should contribute to the improvement of our national manu-
factures. Mr. Cartwright was not aware in how high a de-
gree a faculty of this nature existed in his own mind, until it
was brought into action by the accidental occurrence of a
conversation at a public table, on the subject of new
and ingenious inventions, especially that of Sir Richard
Arkwright’s recently invented method of spinning cotton by
machinery.
It was observed by some of the company present, that if
this new mode of spinning by machinery should be generally
adopted, so much more yarn would be manufactured than our
own weavers could work up, that the consequence would be a
considerable export to the continent, where it might be woven
into cloth so cheaply as to injure the trade in England. Mr.
Cartwright replied to this observation, that the only remedy
for such an evil would be to apply the power of machinery to
the art of weaving as well as to that of spinning, by contriv-
ing looms to work up the yarn as fast as it was produced by
the spindle. Some gentlemen from Manchester who were
present, and who, it may he presumed, were better acquainted
with the subject of discussion, would not admit of the possi-
bility of such a contrivance, on account of the variety of
movements required in the operation of weaving. Mr. Cart
wright, who, if ever he had seen weaving by hand, had cer-
tainly paid no particular attention to the process by which it
was performed, maintained that there was no real impossibility
in applying power to any part of the most complicated ma-
chine (producing as an instance the automaton chess-player) ;
and that whatever variety of movements the art of weaving
might require, he did not doubt but that the skilful application
of mechanism might produce them. The discussion having
proceeded to some length, it made so strong an impression on
Mr. Cartwright’s mind, that immediately on bis return home
he set about endeavouring to construct a machine that should
justify the proposition be had advanced of the practicability of
weaving by machinery. It may be remarked that the incredu-
lity expressed by those gentlemen, who were, of all persons,
most likely to be acquainted with the fact, bad any attempt
been previously made to weave by machinery, is a pretty de-
cisive proof that nothing of the kind had been effected.
His first attempts, as might be supposed, were rude and
clumsy ; but as neither drawings nor models now remain of
them, we have no means of tracing his earliest steps in me-
chanical experiment, nor of ascertaining the mode in which be
proposed to overcome the difficulties that had appeared insur-
mountable even to experienced mechanicians. In the course
of a few months, however, he bad brought the loom to such a
state of progress, as led him to imagine that it might even-
tually become profitable; and to the surprise of every one
who was at all conversant with undertakings of this nature,
as well as to that of his personal friends, he took out a patent
in April 1785, in order to secure to himself the expected ad-
vantages of the invention#”
(To he continued.)


PERSONS WHO ARE NEVER WITHOUT AN
EXCUSE.
[From “ Persons whom Everybody has seen.”]
It is almost a proverb in the land that you can never
catch a woman without an excuse ready made, be
her surprise or her emergency what it may. It was,
doubtless, her reputed superiority in the art of making
excuses, that by degrees suggested to vast numbers
of the sex she rules (“rules,” so long as she doesn’t
“ show she rules”) the expediency of cultivating it to
the utmost, of employing it as an invaluable ally. At
all events, we now live in the heart of a great world,
which, want what it may, never wants an excuse.
The exemption conceded to all kings is claimed by
most subjects ; who “ can do no wrong,” because
each in his own personal case is ready to prove it
right. Every individual atom of the sovereign people
becomes upon this plan an imperial Caesar, and, we
know,
Caesar did never wrong, but with just cause.
That’s just it. We never do wrong but upon right
principles, and never commit a fault without an ex-
cellent reason for it.
The bewildered patient, hearty last week, dies
amidst a countless multitude of phials and pill-boxes:
but the M.D. has his excuse —the obstinate man would
have the wing of a partridge for his dinner ; besides,
his disease was evidently mortal —look at him, and
you see the fact in his face.
The client walks out of court, winning his cause
but losing his land ; the lawyer has his excuse —the
estate was only just large enough to pay the costs
of suit.
The dramatist writes a tragedy and fails, but he has
his excuse —the acting was execrable. And the actor
who played so villainously, he has his excuse too —
Garrick would have been hooted in the part, and have
felt his genius in such a play buried in a leaden
coffin.
The rich have an excuse for giving nothing away —
the dread of encouraging rogues ; and the poor offer
at least as good a reason for not paying their debts—
they have no money.
The man with the gout—what is his excuse for
taking turtle twice ? “ Oh, why it was sent to me ;
and then that fellow Jones had it three times ; more-
over, I’m fond of it.”
And he who staggers from the half-upset table and
reels home on both sides of the road at midnight, has
he no excuse for the drunkenness which is delicately
phrased down into inebriety ? Oh, certainly ;he
had met with the best friends in the world, and hadn’t
an idea that whisky-punch affected the head—thought
the port really capital, and was inclined to blame the
bottled stout; the excuse for being drunk generally
ending with the emphatic appeal, " and besides —
besides, mind —I’m s-s-sober.” The drinker’s excuses,
however, are innumerable. If it were of any use to
attempt an enumeration, we should say that they run
Ist. That it is ungentlemanly to pass the bottle.
2ndly. That it is the anniversary of his wedding day
—of his marriage with his first wife. 3rdly. That
his heart is almost broken. 4thly. That he only
drinks at night to enable him to relish his plain glass
of porter next day. sthly. That he has one wife and
six children weighing heavily on his mind. 6thly.
That he is writing a volume of poems. 7thly. That
these are not times for a patriot to flinch from sup-
porting the revenue. Bthly. That his heart is quite
broken. 9thly. That he cannot tell whether it is to
be a girl or a boy. lOtlily. That he means to start
for America, being sick of the United States in
England, &c.
The very apostle of temperance is not without an
excuse for an outbreak. It was Father Mathew’s
birthday ; or there must have been something in the
water that he drank after supper—not a doubt of it.
The defrauded tradesman excuses his own care-
lessness—rather say his own willingness to be cheated ;
the bankrupt was so smooth-spoken, and went
regularly to the same parish church. The fradulent
bankrupt in turn finds an excuse for his frailty in the
intense force of domestic affection ; —his wife had a
passion for point lace and a drive in the parks, while
his children would never have got through their
measles comfortably, unless indulged with a promise
of real French-dancing masters on their recovery.
Indeed, the only thing for which there is no excuse
is—to be under any circumstances without one.
History.
ANCIENT HISTORY.—SECTION XXXV.
CONSIDERATIONS ON SUCH PARTICULARS AS MARK THE GENIUS
AND NATIONAL CHARACTER OF THE ROMANS. SYSTEM OF
ROMAN EDUCATION.
1. A virtuous but rigid severity of manners was the charac-
teristic of the Romans under their kings, and in the first ages
of the republic. The private life of the citizens was frugal,
temperate, and laborious, which had its influence on their
public character. The Patria potestas gave to every head of
a family a sovereign authority over all the members that com-
posed it; and this power, felt as a right of nature, was never
abused. Plutarch has remarked, as a defect of the Roman
laws, that they did not prescribe, as those of Lacedaemon, a
system and rules for the education of youth. But the truth
is, the manners of the people supplied this want. The utmost
attention was bestowed in the early formation of mind and
character. The excellent author of the dialogue de Oratoribus
(whether Quintilian or Tacitus) presents a valuable picture of
the Roman education in the early ages of the commonwealth,
contrasted with the less virtuous practice of the more refined.
The Roman matrons did not abandon their infants to merce-
nary nurses. They esteemed those duties sacred, and regarded
the nurture of their offspring, the rudiments of their educa-
ion, and the necessary occupations of their household, as the
highest points of female merit. Next to the care bestowed in
the instilment of virtuous morals, a remarkable degree of at-
tention seems to have been given to the language of children,
and to the attainment of a correctness and purity of expres-
sion. Cicero informs us that the Gracchi, the sons of Cofcelia,
were educated, non tamin gramio quamin sermone matris. That
urbanity which characterised the Roman citizens showed itself
particularly in their speech and gesture.
2. The attention to the language of the youth had another
source, jit was by eloquence more than by any other talent,
that the young Roman could rise to the highest offices and
dignities of the state. The studia forensia were, therefore, a
principal object of the Roman education. Plutarch informs
us, that among the sports of the children at Rome, one was,
the pleading causes before a mock tribunal, and accusing and
defending a criminal in the usual forms of judicial procedure.
3. The exercises of the body were likewise particularly
attended to ; whatever might harden the temperament, and
confer strength and agility. These exercises were daily prac


tised by the youth, under the eye of their elders, in the Campus
Martius.
4. At seventeen the youth assumed the manly robe, the toga
virilis. He was consigned to the care of a master of rhetoric,
whom he attended constantly to the forum, or to the courts of
justice ; for to be an accomplished gentleman, it was necessary
for a Roman to be an accomplished orator. The pains
bestowed on the attainment of this character, and the best
instructions for its acquisition, we learn from the writings of
Cicero, Quintilian, and the younger Pliny.
A BUSH STORY.
[For the Colonial Literary Journal.]
( Continued.)
During the absence of Henry Egerton in search of Charles,
Mr. Egerton and Mr. Wilson had seated themselves in the
verandah, where Mrs. and Miss Egerton had joined them
with refreshments.
“ A pretty farm this, Mr. Wilson,” said Mr. Egerton ; “ it
is in fine order, and has been well attended. Our friend
Westmeath has a good notion of business, though rather
uncouth in his manners. His settlement and himself are as
widely different as one-half of his family are to the other,
three of them being regular boors, and three of them pecu-
liarly refined. You say you have known the family for some
time; tell us what you think of the young man, his son, who
is left here with us?”
“ I have not,” said Mr. Wilson, “ a very intimate know-
ledge of the young man, but I have a very high estimation
for Mrs. Westmeath, who has often spoken to me of him ; I
have frequently heard her regret that he had not the energy
and buoyancy of other youths of his age; not that he is in
any degree deficient in mental or corporeal powers, and I
have seen him at a very early age manifest a kind of sullen
superiority over his father. He has often been heard to say
that he never rose or went to rest without the conviction of
an evil destiny, or as was his wont to say, ‘ a flaw in his
destiny.’ No feeling of anger with any one was ever mani-
fested, but a constant discontent; he would say he was not
in the sphere for which he was ordained, and he was dis-
satisfied with all around him. He might have found com-
panions in the neighbouring- settlors. Many proffers of
sociability were made, but to his own mother alone did he
ever look for companionship, though he was often the play-
mate of his youngest sister. He would frequently say, that he
longed for some one who would walk out with him, and share
his fancies and his thoughts, admire what he admired, and
adore with him the glorious scenes around us in this colony.
Westmeath was here many years before his family, which
accounts for the great difference of age in the young child
and the elder ones. When he called on me a few weeks ago,
to tell me he had passed over the settlement into your hands,
he spoke of some great speculation he has in view, and that
he must return to London for machinery before he could
commence. His wife and family are, nevertheless, by this
time beyond the Heads, for the ship was not visible at sun-
doWn.”
“Gone!” ejaculated Miss Egerton; “poor dear Mr.
Charles ; he lias not taken leave of them ; he has not had a
parting salutation or blessing. He expected to join them in
three months in Sydney.”
Charles and Henry now joined the family on the verandah ;
the former was most cordially greeted by Mr. Wilson, who
rose to meet him.
“ Am I the harbinger of disappointment ?” said he to him.
“ Your aspect is greatly saddened.”
“ Surprised as much as saddened,” said Charles ; “ and had
I not the Herald in my hand, in which my mother and sisters
are mentioned as passengers in the Mary Anne , for London,
I could not have been convinced of the reality of the facts
stated in my father’s letter.”
“ But you have a letter from your mother, Mr. Charles ?”
said Laura, enquiringly.
“ Not a word—not a word!” was his reply.
“ But you can go with your father, Mr. Charles,” said Laura,
while tears were in her eyes at his distressed melancholy.
“ No, no, Miss Egerton, I shall remain here, and take cog-
nizance of the farm, if Mr. Egerton will permit me, for the
overseer, who went to Sydney, is to work his way home, as he
did out, it seems by my father’s letter; he goes as butcher.
Perhaps in short time I shall not look so miserable. I
shall see all your happy countenances, and that will be a
great comfort.”
“ And a much greater comfort, Mr. Charles,” said Laura,
“ if we can see our happiness reflected back on yours ; and
now let us say with Peter Simple, ‘ it’s of no use crying;
what’s done can’t be undone ; better luck next time.’ ”
“ I have no doubt,” said Mr. Wilson, “ that Charles will be
as merry as any of you in nine months, for that is Neptune's
time to wherry us over to London, and let friends know ‘ all’s
well.’ And now, Mr. Egerton, allow me to say, that although
I have had hitherto nothing to complain of in the care taken
of this settlement, and these lands, which you are aware, 1
suppose, belong to me, yet I am much delighted to see it in
the hands of those with whom I shall be proud to be thought
of as on an equality ; and I drink success to the farm, and
long life, health, and happiness to my tenants. And now,
Mr? Egerton, we will step across to what Mr. Westmeath
very wisely called his house of business. Mr. Charles, you
must join us, for we shall want another signature from you.”
Mr. Egerton looked at his guest with embarrassed amaze-
ment, who took the seat of business as if indeed he claimed
some right or title to do so ,• and when the trio were seated,
Mr. Egerton said, “ Well, sir, I wait your denouement of
what appears to me something very extraordinary!”
“ Mr. Egerton, I am sure you are willing, and indeed you
must be desirous, that this business should be transacted in
the customary manner, and, as I said before, you are aware
that this property is mine, therefore ”
“ Stop, sir; I must beg leave to say that this property is
bond fide mine. I have purchased it-—I have paid for it—and
[ am in possession ”
“ Softly, softly, Mr. Egerton, while I explain, that if you
have paid money down for this estate, you have been de-
ceived —you have been cheated. This estate is still mine, as
I can prove, and John Westmeath is yet my tenant, if you
are not.”
“ Mr. Wilson,” said Mr. Egerton, “it is now five years
since I was in your company, and upon this very business;
and I have a perfect recollection of what passed between us
during my stay with you. I was informed by yourself that
John Westmeath was in treaty for Greylands, and that you
had come to the conclusion that he should be the purchaser.
Nay, I saw the writings drawn up ready for his signature,
and had your own declaration that the bargain should be only
for cash down, as your only object was ready money, to make
a safe investiture in the Union Bank, on behalf of your wife,
for which you were very anxious since your recent attack of
apoplexy. Thus you see that the confidence I had in your
strongly marked intentions, has been my guarantee for ap
action which I must earnestly trust will turn out in my
favour.”
“ I cannot deny,” replied Mr. Wilson, “the correctness of
all you have said ; but, however, when I met Westmeath ip
Sydney, I found him in great perplexity: the agreement
could not be entered upon until he sent home to England for
part of the supply. You had proposed to me £5OO per
annum ; he offered £6OO ; well, I thought, 1 will pass over
the Greylands in investiture instead of my original intention
of placing money in the funds for my wife. I did it reluc-
tantly, because I would spare her from every kind of business,
knowing that when the event took place, to render this
arrangement necessary, Mrs. Wilson would be thus left in the
power of agents, the very thing I ought to avoid, for she and
I are an old-fashioned couple, and when the term of life to
either shall be ended, we should have no mind for business.
But, to cut the matter short, I agreed to take Westmeath as a
yearly tenant, at the rate of £6OO per annum, which he has
duly paid. A short time since he informed me of his new
speculation, and asked me to advance him the sum of £4,000,
which I would not have done at any time, more especially
now as we are returning to England, to end our days in our
native land. Westmeath told me had transferred the lease he
held to you, and I expressed my perfect content, and as I
knew you had an eye to the purchase, I came to acknowledge
our relative positions as landlord and tenant, and at the same
time to propose to you the purchase of the settlement. Now,
Mr. Egerton, my tale is told. I am ready to hear what is
your interest in the matter.”
“ Interest!” shouted Mr. Egerton, striking his clenched
fist on the table. “ Ruination ! I am the dupe of a rascal.
Mr. Charles, what share have you had in this abominably
transaction ?”
Charles had risen from his seat, and was pacing the room
apparently in an agony of distress. He stopped, and looking
at Mr. Egerton, said, “ My share is to be the son of a
villain !”
Deep anti full was now the conviction on the mind of Mr


Egerton, that he was literally a ruined and pennyless man.
All were silent, each absorbed in one common feeling—one
discovery of ruin to all. Mr. Wilson could by law, it is true,
take the settlement into his hands, but his arrangements were
ordered for leaving the colony. Mr. Egerton thought he
might be allowed to manage the settlement, but it must be
subservient to another. Where would be his freedom—his
liberty ? Bred to affluence, if not to luxury, how was he to
sustain the weight of pecuniary loss ? Were he alone, he
could endure—but his family. They would blame him for
indiscretion : his boys would laugh at his weakness—his wife,
his daughter, could no longer respect his wisdom, his judg-
ment, his knowledge of the world and mankind. What should
he do—where should he go ? And what were the thoughts
that passed in the mind of Charles, as he stood fixed on the
spot where he had last spoken. Awful, indeed, were his
thoughts. First they were—l will seek my father— I will
make him return—but how, and where ? He that has been
so subtle, he will easily elude my search, and were I to find
him, he is again amenable to the law—he might not again
escape. No, no, I cannot be his prosecutor; and Laura —if
there stood between us an unknown barrier previous to this,
what is before me now ? The son of a robber ! I cannot
endure it—l cannot see her—l cannot live! Can it be that
there is no pardon for one who in his desolation cuts the link
which binds the spirit of man to his flesh; surely the spirit
must return to God, who gave it. If I disjoin my soul from
my body, it is because I have found that this is not my
resting-place. Will He be angry that I prefer his glorious
presence to the load of misery which must henceforth be
mine? “Ha! what is that sound in my ear!” he spoke
aloud. “Mother! my mother; what do I hear!”
“ No one spoke to you, Charles,” said Mr. Wilson tenderly.
Charles walked up hurriedly to Mr. Wilson, and staring
wildly in his face, said, “ Sir, I heard my mother’s voice, and
she did speak to me !”
“ Well, Charles, tranquilise yourself; what did she say?”
After looking steadfastly in Mr. Wilson’s face, he answered
emphatically, “Thou shalt do no murder!” and then darted
out of the room.
A short pause ensued, when Mr. Egerton, addressing Mr.
M ilson, enquired “ what were his views and intentions in the
present aspect of affairs ?”
“ There can be no hesitation on my part,” said Mi. Wilson ;
“ I shall go in search of that rascal Westmeath; arid I think
we had better join company to Sydney, and then be led by
circumstances. He cannot have left the colony, nor can he
long be hidden. But no time must be lost; let us depart at
daybreak.”
“Agreed,” said Mr. Egerton ; “ and I must go and convey
all this sad intelligence to my dear family.”
“ And I,” said Mr. Wilson, “ will go speak to this dis-
tracted youth, whom I verily believe to be as innocent in all
this affair as your lovely daughter; but he is not ignorant of
his father’s character, although I was most assuredly so, until
within the last twenty-four hours, when I was told by a person
I met on the way, that I had better make sure of all being
right, * for,’ said my informant, ‘ the brand is on him —I say
no more,’ and thus we parted.”
Mr. Wilson walked a short distance, and calling one of the
labourers to him, said, “ Which of you all on this settlement
has been longest time in the colony ?”
“ James Black,” your honour.
“ Send James Black to me then as quickly as you can.”
“ 1 will, sir ;” and he departed.
The man speedily returned with James Black, who wa s
desired to enter the house of business, where Mr. Wilson thu s
interrogated him.
“ How long have you lived with Mr. Westmeath ?”
“ Better than three years.”
“ Are you a ticket-of-leave man ?”
“ I am, sir.”
“ Where is your master?”
“ Can’t say exactly.”
“ Is he on the premises ?”
“ I am sure he is not.”
“ You smile fellow. Are you aware that l am a magistrate ?”
“ I am aware that you are not on the bench now.”
“ Well, will you tell ms what you think of your master, and
where he is 2”
“ I will not say much about him, but I think, sir, you must
let matters be, for I’m thinking he’s off altogether now.”
“ He cannot have left the colony ?”
“ May be not, sir.”
“ Hn\y long have you been in this country ?”
“ Fifteen years come next Easter.”
“ Flow long has Mr. Westmeath been known to vou ?”
“ Fie was my shipmate, sir.”
j “ °ur shii mate ! Was he too a convict ?”
“ Why, sir, it's. no use denying it, for it was no secret service
j vve came on. I did a bad action in haste, and in anger ;he did
i a Uttle job for himself, in his very coolest moments, and
somehow we both came here together.”
“ What was your name when you came to the colony ?”
| “ Joe Bingley.”
“ Well, Master Bingley, once more 1 ask you, do you think
he is on the premises ?”
“ I 3m sure he is not.”
“ You may return to your work.”
Black raised his hand to his forehead, and withdrew.
In the meantime, Mr. Egerton made known to his wife and
children the disastrous state of affairs. “We are ruined,”
added he, after having detailed the sorrowful circumstances.
“ But, papa,” said Laura, “ why are we ruined? You have
lost your money perhaps, but we can hold the estate as
tenants ; we can pay rent, and live upon the produce. You
have only lost ready money, and as that was not in use, we
shall not miss it; and lam sure poor Charles will give us his
help, and that may be some small portion of comfort to him.
Indeed, indeed papa, he is more to be pitied than we are.
Oh dear, oh dear, for such a son to have a wicked father. Did
you notice, mama, how he fixed his eyes on you and me, as
if imploring us not to implicate his mother, when papa men-
tioned her. Indeed, he seems to look to us for comfort, and
that reminds me of your telling us how absent in mind he
appeared on the day he signed the horrid papers, and that he
asked you ‘ how long you were to hold the estate,’ and blamed
yourself afterwards for having answered him.—‘For ever and
ever.’ ”
“ Yes, Laura, and you bring to my remembrance another
observation he made on that occasion, which passed un-
heeded then, which was that ‘he was surprised at his father
letting the station to me or any one else, for it was an excellent
station.’ Yes, yes, Charles is innocent! There is not-the
shadow of 3 doubt upon it.”
“ Then, dear papa, do let us all work together, and let that
bad man be forgotten !”
“ Why, Laura,” said Henry, “ you speak as if Charles, as
you call him, was the ‘number one’ of all that is to be con-
sidered. Are we tn lose our inheritance, and be content to
work hard all day for our daily bread, like the poor emigrants
and convicts, without a struggle to regain our own ? No, no,
papa is too wise, and too just, for such a measure. There
must be some clue to find the felon. He cannot leave this
place without registering his name. It is not at all unlikely
that the ladies of the family are comfortably provided for; but
we will have the scoundrel if it is within a possibility. We
will all go to-morrow by sunrise, and our joint endeavours
must succeed.”
“ Henry,” said Mr. Egerton, “ I most cordially assent to
your accompanying us ; and now you must to bed.”
Mr. and Mrs. Egerton remained alone.
“ Well, my dear Martha,” said the former, “you have not
yet uttered your feelings upon our distressful condition !”
“ No, my love, but I have sought wisdom to guide, and
strength to endure, from whence it is promised. Anxiety
begets reflection, and reflection, in a well informed mind like
yours, never fails to find means. You are all right in seeking
the man, and then restoration may be hoped for; but I must
tell you that a suspicious feeling arose in my mind, which,
though at the time apparently without foundation, now rises
again as a leading article, if I may thus call it, in my train of
thoughts. Why did Jackson, the overseer, go to London so
unexpectedly, and why work his way out as butcher? We
had been told that he w’as to remain with us; and Mr. West-
meath at the same time remarked that ‘he had made a good
thing of it, he being one of the few single men on the
station.’ ”
“ And what, my dear Martha, is the inference you draw
from this ?”
“ Oh, simply that it is connected with the fraud ; and the
idea has sometimes this day been present that he may have
taken the money to England. And suppose that, or anything
as bad as that, shall prove to be the fact ?”
“ Oh, then, and not till then, will I contemplate our loss as
a reality. Our two elder children have already manifested
their own individual sentiments. Henry will be outrageous
for a time, and we should ever feel it a bitter part of our
portion that you were made his guardian by your brother,
and that you have sunk the property of the boys without more


substantial security. Poor Laura, too, our amiable, our
beloved child. All our imaginings have been confirmed : bis j
sorrows bind her more to him; she looks upon him as a
mutual sufferer with ourselves, and the father’s delinquency
does not in her estimation affect the son. Indeed, if complete
restoration were obtained by force of law, without a due re-
pentance on bis part, we could never unite the families. This
conviction I am sure is written on the care-worn brow of the
young man, and upon my questioning Laura concerning it,
she confirmed me in my previous conviction that he has never
alluded to his affection for her, although it is so visible to us.
She acknowledges her very warm feelings towards him, and
says in her weak innocency she does not need that he should
speak of love to her—he has looked it, and she knows he does !
love her, and she is sure she loves him, and that if we do not j
object, she will continue to comfort him by her sympathy, j
However, there can be but one opinion amongst us in re-
ference to your going in search of Westmeath. Leave James
with us, and we will find so many things to do, and so many
things to enquire of Mr. Charles, upon business matters, that
shall leave none of us much time for reflection ; and if the
worst cf our anticipations shall arrive, I trust we shall all be
enabled to bear them. Come, soon to rest, dearest, do not
sit any longer.”
“ I will join you almost immediately,” answered Mr.
Egerton, as she left the room.
However, he opened the glass door of the verandah, and
paced up and down, in a deep reverie, its spacious and starlit
frontage. His arms were crossed on his chest, and, as if
nature had been pent up within him by force and stratagem,
he exclaimed, “What shall I do ? What can I do ? The
villain ” His ear quickly caught the sound of a step.
and he turned quick upon the intruder with an expression of
impatience and surprise, which might at any other time have
daunted the young man. It was Charles. He advanced and
took the hand of Mr. Egerton, which he neither yielded or
withdrew.
“ I see you suffer,” said Charles, “ and I know what you
suffer. I entreat you to let me sympathise with you, if I can
do no more!”
Egerton, “ were he not your father, I fear I should he tempted
to shoot him through the head if he appeared before me. I
am in circumstances where a train of evil is all that is left me.
There are wrongs which may be forgiven, there are injuries
which time can obliterate, but mine are none of these.”
A short pause ensued, when Charles exclaimed,
“ Oh, that I could weep, were it only to save me from
madness 1”
“Hush, hush, Mr. Charles; be calm, becalm; you came
to sympathise with me. You are indeed worthy of more
confidence than my spirit will suffer me to place in you or
any one.”
“ Do I not know all your sorrows, Mr. Egerton ! Has not
he to whom I owe my birth brought misery to you, and
wretchedness to me? 'Yes, yes! he has made me old in
feeling, I am blasted, withered, like the tree in the midst of yon
bush, which has no longer comparison with its fellows, or
nourishment from its parent earth. I am a mere straw,
severed from its roots, its grains of corn thrashed out, and
ready to be whirled I know not, and I care not, whither.”
“ J can at least, young man, sympathise with you,” said
Mr. Egerton ; “ but is this the sympathy alone we' can have.
Is there no direction, no resource, to which we can refer each
other ? What if I tell you that my child, my darling child,
loves you, and that it is your and her desperate, hopeless
passion, which bows me to the ground!”
“ Heaven will reward you tor this word of compassion—it
is at this moment enough for me to bear.% She then knows
me as my mother’s son, who is like herself, all love and
virtue. God spare her from all her sorrows ! I am calm.”
Mr. Egerton feared his calmness, and with the kindness
of a lather, he entered and mixed him a warm drink from the
residue of the evening collation, and then opening the door
of a room from the verandah, gently pushed him in, and com -
manded him to lie down.
After three days travelling the party reached Sydney, where
they rested a very short period, and each went on their route,
as had been arranged during their journey, engaging to meet
at the Club-house to report their respective intelligence. It
was tnree o clock in the afternoon when they again assembled,
and the result of their enquiries was, that Westmeath had full
possession of the money, some in specie, some in bills ; that
the money-lender, to whom Mr. Egerton was informed he was
to pass over the amount which he expected to receive shortly
for Lovegrace cottage, had advanced Westmeath the same at
very low interest, on the understanding that it was to be paid
forthwith, and if this were not done, a much higher rate must
be named, for which the said money lender looked to Mr.
Egerton, though he by no means wished to hurry him. No
one appeared in all Sydney to be acquainted with Mr. West-
meath’s locality, but all supposed him to be in town, as he had
taken a berth in the ship Navigator, clearing out for London.
A warrant had been obtained to apprehend him, on a charge
of felony, and notice of it given to the ship’s agent. The sum
of Henry Egerton’s report was, that in accordance to his
mother’s suggestion, he had gone from butcher to butcher,
! interrogating them as to their knowledge of the man Jackson,
I who was gone on board the Mar;/ Ann, in tnat capacity, until
jat length he came to the right person, a small dealer in a
I bye-street, named Jones. This man informed him first of all,
| that inquiries concerning Jackson were unavailing, as he was
gone to England ; he had been a convict, and was free by ser-
jvitude, and that there was nothing to hinder him taking the
; duty of butcher, for he had been a helper to him, and was, he
believed, an honest man. In answer as to whether he had
any comrade with him, he said he had, but his name was not
mentioned, and Jones said he was a stranger to him. He was
a short stout man, with dark bushy hair and sunburnt coun-
tenance; thought he had light eyes. He also was going as
cook in the same ship, and they were both rather eager to be
| off, and entered into no conversation with him. In answer as
! to whether he gave them a character, he said, that he signed a
i paper which the cook wrote. It did not require much cha-
racter, he said, for these kind of places, for all seamen must
i submit to sea rules; indeed, he added, I took Jackson’s word
i for his knowledge of cooking, for I suppose that’s easy enough.
| obvious. There is no hope. It is now ten days since the
I Mary Ann left, and she has had, unfortunately for us, some
j fair winds.”
“ Too true,” answered Mr. Egerton ; “ he has disguised
; himself with a wig ; but can he have made his amiable wife
j acquainted with his scheme ? Yes, yes, I see it all : he will
I keep to the cook house—they will be in the cabin; they may
j never meet till ‘ Richard is himself again.’ ”
“But father,” said Henry, “the Mary Ann may stop at
some of the British possessions, or at any rate they cannot
arrive at home much before the Navigator. Could not some-
thing be done to stop payment, and to apprehend him?”
Much, much must be done, and quickly,” said Mr. Eger-
; ton. “ Despatches may be sent to the agents; the Navigator is
I a fast sailor. We will turn our immediate attention to these
J subjects. You go on board Henry, and ascertain the soonest
time of departure, and all things that may come to your mind
as necessary. State facts, my dear boy, to any one you may
see in command, and find out if they would be willing to take
a run for us. Hold out a reward, and plead the justice of
recovery. We will go to the agents and the banks, —my
hopes are reviving.”
Each now separated to put their active measures into
practice. Everything was now put into a train for an eventful
; future, and the results anticipated with intense but varied
j feelings. Each party went to their respective homes and
duties, and all except Charles Westmeath were patient in
hope. There were indeed times when he would smile as he
listened to the kind enquiries of Laura, as to his health, and
whether she could render him any maidenly service. They
often walked together, but they never takea of love; there was
i a sweet unison of sentiment, and, as she often said to her
, mother, his principles, his views of morality, and his religion,
all coincided with her own.
j One Sunday afternoon the whole party were sitting in the
j verandah, sheltered from the rain which had poured inces-
j sandy during the day, when Mr. Egerton rather abruptly said,
j “ Mr. Charles, you and Laura miss your accustomed walk
| to-day.”
i Laura smiled, and looked at her father, who continued
| addressing Charles : “ We have all, I trust, manifested towards
' you the estimation we entertain of your honour and upright-
ness of conduct; and as we are now assembled, and have
had no concealments from you, but on the contrary, have not
spared our most delicate sympathies, you will reward our con-
fidence by the disclosure of such events of your family as have
been the precursors to the circumstances under which we now
i have you amongst us. You know we are not ignorant that
I your father was sent out here, hut the circumstances which
i induced it we do not know.”
j Charles, eagerly and hurriedly, as if it were dangerous to
hesitate or reflect, commenced ; “ Mv mother was the daughter


of a clergyman ; my father, the son of an eminent architect,
acted as clerk to a builder of great note in London, for
which he received £3OO per annum. After he had been there
five years, it was discovered that he had, at different periods,
written in imitation of the signature of his employer, and thus
obtained a large sum of money. He was tried and sent here.
At his desire my mother brought us out in an emigrant ship.”
“ What use had he made of the money, seeing he had an
ample salary V*
“ Sir, he loved money, but he did not spend it; and my dear
mother found to her inexpressible horror when she arrived,
that she had brought out bank notes in a trunk which was
lined with tin, the notes being under it. Jackson has ever been
a sharer with my father, and I heard him tell one, though he
knew not that I heard it, that he stole something on purpose
to come out; but that is not the case, for there is yet a confe-
derate on the station who also arrived with my father, and
Jackson was sent here at the same time.”
“ Mr. Charles,” said Mr. Egerton, “ there are convicts
which both Mrs. Egerton and myself can pity and forgive. A
person may do an evil act in an unguarded moment, and
bewail it ever after ; dire necessity will prompt some to evil,
bad company others, but I fear, nay I am sure, there are also
many who never see their sin until they are brought to the
scaffold. We see in this colony men who nave redeemed their
characters, and we should hold out to them the right hand of
fellowship. How many persons like ourselves, who would
blush at the bare idea of a dishonest act, might in adversity
commit some wrong. An honest heart cannot look upon a
speculative risk with borrowed money without abhorrence.
If all men would ‘ be content with such things as they have’
and work with industry to increase their store, they might
not be rich, but they would be happy, and they might gain
affluence—may God grant that we may not be of those who
give an everlasting bad name to a being of either sex who is
repentant. "Would that your father had proved one of them.
He who knew the hearts of both man and woman said
of the one, ‘ that if he sinned seventy time seven, and repented,
he was to be forgiven and to the other, he said, ‘I do not
condemn thee, go and sin no more.’ We will now attend the
summons to tea.”
Outlines of Geography; Designed for the use of the Youth
of Australia- By J. H. Rucker, Conductor of the Commercial
and Classical Academy , Wardell's Cottage, Pitt~street, Sydney.
T. Trood,
This little epitome (just published), which has been brought
under our notice, seems to be written in a very easy and
familiar style —such as a child’s first book should be. Its
plainness and perspicuity of arrangement, also, we consider,
should serve to bring it into universal use among our young
Australian scholars.
Varieties.
Rustic Shrewdness. —During the panic of 1825, a wo-
man, who had long attended the Bristol market as a vendor of
vegetables, walked into Stuckey’s banking-house on the quay,
and making her way direct to the cashier’s desk, thus ad-
dressed Mr. M ; “ How d’ye do, sir; I do hope you be
charming ; I’ve got a bit of a favour to ax you. They do tell
I that things be a going on but queerish like up in Lunnon,
and it so happens that I’ve saved by a five pound Bank of
England note, and I should be obliged to you if so be as how
you’d be so kind as to give I gold for it.” “My good wo-
man,” replied the cashier, “ I’m sorry I can’t do what you
ask. We are not in the habit of giving change to strangers.”
“Lord love’e, I be’ant no stranger; I’ve a served Madam
M wi’ garden stuff for many a long day ; she do know I
pretty well I should think, or she wouldn’t have ax’d me to
to find out a decentish wholesome young woman to nurse your
last dear beautiful baby. So now you do know all about it;
and I’m bound won’t refuse to give change for this nice clean
looking Lunnon bank note.” “ 1 tell you again I cannot,”
was snappishly replied; “I am too busy to listen to you just
now, so it’s no use your staying,” “I ax pardon, sir, but I
won’t keep 'ee a minute ; if Madam was here, she’d get it for
me in less than no time ; she said only last Saturday as ever !
was, she never tasted such beautiful gold runnets as the lot I
was pleased to sell her the week afore.” The cashier evinced
strong symptoms of impatience ; these were not lost upon the
applicant, who, in a most winning tone resumed—“ Well, now
I’ll tell ’ee what—since you won’t give I gold, may be you’l
be so uncommon kind as to change this here Bank o’ England
for one of your own notes of the same vallv ? I’d a precious
sight rather have that, ’cause I do know there be no fear o’
your breaking all to bits, though they do say a mortal sight o’
banks have done so lately.” “Certainly, ma’dam,” blandly
responded Mr. M ; I’ll do that with a great deal of plea-
sure.” The proposed exchange was made. “ Thank ye kindly
sir; you be a civil spoken gentleman as a body may wish to
meet, and sartain sure I’ll tell Madam so the next time she
do come to my standing.” Thinking the business concluded
to the mutual satisfaction of both parties, the cashier turned
on his heel, and was about to ensconce himself behind his
desk, when the dealer in greens suddenly checked his progress
by audibly reading-—“ Promise to pay five pounds on demand .
-—Oh ! ye do, do ye ! Then I say, Mr. M , I don’t mean
no offence, or to say anything unpleasant like; but, I’m
hanged if I dont have gold now, or I’ll stick myself up at the
the door, and cry out, ‘ the Bank be stopped !’ ” We need
scarcely say she carried her point.
True Love. —“ Hast thou not observed, Doris, that thy
future husband has lame feet ?” “Yes, papa,” said she “I
have seen it; but then he speaks to me so kindly and piously,
that I seldom pay attention to his feet.” “ Well, Doris, but
young women generally look at a man’s figure.” “I, too,
papa,” was the answer ; “ but Wilhelm pleases me just as he
is. If he had straight feet, he would not be Wilhelm Stilling,
and how could I love him then ?”
Order.— An orderly man arranges his book-shelf, putting
the works of one kind, or treating of one subject, together.
He goes away, contented with the idea that now no effort of
memory v ill be required to know where a particular book is,
amongst a few hundreds of volumes, and no useless time will
be expended in seeking, when he shall have forgotten the
place of each individual work. He has only to know the sub-
ject of the work in question, and by this is guided to its place.
Now comes his tidy wife. The books of one size are set to-
gether; little ones at the top, and great ones at the bottom.
The prayer-book cannot lie by the Bible, it is too little;
it must go, along with an annual and a pocket dictionary,
on to the top shelf. An atlas, and a book on designing, must
stand by the Bible, because her bump of tidiness (order run
mad) has found, or fancied, a connexion between them. There
is nothing this mad woman won’t do. The excellent arrange-
ment of a dictionary, by zncana erf which ouc particular wore}
• may be found in a minute, amongst many thousands, would
be changed by her obedience to a favourite saw, “ Little ones
at the top, and great ones at the bottomand if any one com-
plained they could not find what they wanted, she would an-
swer, “ You should remember where you put it.”—“ You
ought to be able to go to it in the dark, &c. — Tait s Magazine.
Chain of Beings. —Bitumen and sulphur form the link
between earth and metals —vitriols unite metals with salts —
crystallisations connect salts with stones —the amianthus and
lytophites form a kind of tie between stones and plants the
polypus unites plants to insects —the tube-worm seems to lead
to shells and reptiles—-the water-serpent and the eel form a
passage from reptiles to fish —the anas nigra are a medium
between fishes and birds —the bat and the flying-squirrel link
birds to quadrupeds —and the monkey equally gives the hand
to the quadruped and to man.
Poetry, were it the rudest, so it be sincere, is the attempt
which man makes to render his existence harmonious, the
utmost he can do for that end ; it springs, therefore, from his
whole feelings, opinions, activity, and tal es its character from
these. It may be called the music of his whole manner of
being; and, historically considered, is the best test how far
music or freedom agisted therein ; how far the feeling of love,
of beauty, and of dignity, could be elicited from that peculiar
situation of his, and from the views he there had of life and
nature, of the universe internal and external. Carlyle.
To Cure Wounds in Cattle.— When the animal receives
the wound (if of an extensive nature, to be closed with a few
stitches, not too closely put into the lips of it) a loose bandage
is to be wound round it (not for the purpose of ligature, but
to retain a constant moisture), which must be kept unceasingly
wet by an application of cold spring water, till the wound is
quite well. This treatment is also equally efficacious foi
fractures; the parts must be bound together (not too tightly)
with splints; the beast must not be allowed to move ; and
should proud flesh appear when a wound is healing, as often
happens, a piece of bluestone should be rubbed on the part so
affected for a few days, which will remove the excrescence.—
Farmers' Gazette.


The Moralist.
MISERY.
Feeble and insufficient as thou art, O man, in good ; frail and
inconstant as thou art in pleasure ; yet there is a thing which
is the character of thy being, its name is Misery. And, be-
hold, what is its source, but thine own passions ?
He who gave thee these, gave thee also reason to subdue
them ; exert it, and thou shall trample them under thy feet.
Custom cannot alter the nature of truth ; neither can the
opinion of men destroy justice.
There is but one way for man to be produced: there are a
thousand by which he may be destroyed.
There is no praise, nor honour, to him who giveth being to
another; but triumphs and empire are often the rewards of
murder.
Yet he who hath many children, hath as many blessings ;
and he who hath taken away the life of another, shall not
enjoy his own.
While the savage curseth the birth of his son, and blesseth
the death of his father, doth he not call himself a monster ?
Enough of evil is allotted unto man; but he maketh it more
while he lamenteth it.
The greatest of all human ills is sorrow; too much of this
thou art born unto ; add not unto it by thy own perverseness.
Grief is natural to thee, and is always near thee ; pleasure is
a stranger, and visiteth thee but by times: use well thy reason,
and sorrow shall be cast behind thee; be prudent, and the
visits of joy shall remain long with thee.
Every part of thy frame is capable of pain, but few are the
paths that lead to delight.
Pleasures can be admitted only simply; but pains rush in a
thousand at a time.
As the blaze of straw fadeth as soon as it is kindled, so
passeth away the brightness of joy, and thouknowest not what
is become of it.
Sorrow is frequent; pleasure is rare: pain cometh of itself.
delight must be purchased : grief is unmixed ; but joy wanteth
not its allay of bitterness.
As the soundest health is less perceived than the slightest
malady, so the highest joy toucheth us less deeply than the
smallest sorrow.
We are in love with anguish; we often fly from pleasure:
when we purchase it, costeth it not more than it is worth ?
is the business of man .• a Sflnse of llis State JR his
first duty; but who remembereth himself in joy? is it not in
mercy then that sorre is allotted unto us?
Man foreseetli the evil that is to come; he remembereth it
when it is past: he considereth not that the thought of afflic-
tion woundeth deeper than the affliction itself. Think not of
thy pain, but when it is upon thee, and thou shalt avoid what
most would hurt thee.
He who weepeth before he needeth, weepeth more than he
needeth : and why, but that he is the child of fear?
The stag weepeth not till the spear is lifteth up against him;
nor do the tears of the beaver fall, till the hound is ready to
seize him: man anticipateth death, by the apprehensions of it;
and the fear is greater misery than the event itself.
Be always prepared to give an account of thine actions ; and
the best death is that which is least premeditated.
MORAL MAXIMS.
ALPHABETICALLY ARRANGED.
No, 40.
Contract your desires, if you wish for independence.
Contradict with respect, and be coipplaisant without fawning.
Controversies should ever be free from the prejudices of sect
and party.
Conveniences have their inconveniences, and comforts their
crosses.
Conversation, however light, should never approach the
confines of impurity.
Conversation is an engine to do good with, yet how often it
does harm.
Conversation teaches more than meditation.
Converse so as to please others, not in order to please your-
self.
Conviviality should ever be free from intemperance.
Cool heads invent systems ; warm hearts embrace them.
Corn is cleansed by wind, and vicious habits by chastisement.
Correct judgment is the mind's most resplendent ornament.
Motives.— Never do evil, solely on the ground that it is
deserved.
Select Poetry.
SMALL-TALK
Small-talk is like small change ; it flows
A thousand different ways, and throws
Thoughts into circulation,
Of trivial value each, but which,
Combined, make social converse riels
In cheerful animation,
As bows unbent recruit their force,
Our minds by frivolous discourse
We strengthen and embellish ;
“ Let us be wise,” said Plato once,
When talking nonsence—“ yonder dunce
For folly has no relish.”
The solemn bore who holds that speech,
Was given us to prose and preach,
And not for lighter usance ;
Straight should be sent to Coventry ;
Or, omnium concensu, be
Indicted as a nuisance.
Though dull the joke, ’tis wise to laugh .
Parched be the tongue that cannot quaff'.
Save from a golden chalice ;
Let jesters seek no other plea,
Than that their merriment be free
From bitterness and malice.
Silence at once the ribald clown,
And check with an indignant frown
The scurrilous backbiter ;
But speed good humour as it runs ;
Be even tolerant of puns,
And every mirth- exciter.
The wag who even fails, may claim
Indulgence for his cheerful aim ;
We should applaud, not hiss him ;
This is a pardon which we grant
(The Latin gives the rhyme I want),
“ Et petimus vicissim.”
—New Monthly Magazine.
NAEBODY KENS YE.
R. L. MALONE GLASGOW.
Are ye doin’ ought weel?—are ye thrivin’, my man ?
lie thankfu’ to Fortune for a’ that she sen’s ye ;
Ye’ll ha’e plenty o’ frien’s aye to offer their han’,
When ye needna their countenance —a’ body kens ye;
A’ body kens ye,
A’ body kens ye,
When ye needna their countenance - a’ body kens ye !
But wait ye a wee, till the tide tak’s a turn !
An’ awa wi’ the ebb drifts the favours she sen’s ye,
Cauld friendship will then leave ye lanely to mourn ;
When ye need a’ their friendship, then naebody kens y« ,
Naebody kens ye, &c.
The crony wha stuck like a burr to your side,
An’ vovved wi’ his heart’s dearest bluid to befrien’ ye,
A five-guinea note, man, will part ye as wide
As if oceans and deserts were lyin’ between ye !
Naebody kens ye, &c.
It’s the siller that does’t, man ! the siller ! the siller !
It’s the siller that breaks ye, an’ mak’s ye, an’ men’s ye !
When your pockets are toom, an’ nae wab i’ the loom,
Then tak’ ye my word for’t, there’s naebody kens ye;
Naebody kens ye, &c.
But thinkna I mean that a’ mankind are sae—
It’s the butterfly-frien’s that misfortune should fear aye
There are those worth the name—gude sen’ there w ere mae !
Wha, the caulder the blast, aye the closer draw near ye;
Naebody kens ye, &e.
The frien’s wha can tell us our fau’ts to our face,
But aye fra our foes in our absence defen’s us,
Leeze me on sic hearts ! o’ life’s pack he’s the ace
Wha scorns to disown us when naebody kens us,
CHORUS,
Naebody kens us, naebody kens us,
Poortith’s a dry-nurse frae folly whilk speans us—
She deprives us o’ means, just to show us our frien’s,
Wha winna disowm us when naebody kens us.


our Subscribers.
The Subscribers to the Colonial Literary Journal are respect-
fully informed, that, the present low rate of subscription being
found inadequate for the defraying of the actual necessary
expenses of the publication of the work, it is the intention of the
Publishers, at the end of the present quarter, to make a slight
addition to the amount of the quarterly subscription ; ivhich
will, they trust, enable them still to continue their endeavours to
the satisfaction, and for the gratification, of the numerous body
of their friends and supporters. The rate of quarterly sub-
scription, therefore, aftc » the present quarter, will be—to Sub-
scribers in Sydney, 4s. 6<L —to Country Subscribers, ss.
This notice is given thus early to allow those Subscribers, who do
not wish to continue their subscription, to send a written notice
to that effect to the Office, accompanied with the amount of
arrears , before the 31s£ instant.
lo Countrn Agents.
Our Country Agents are requested to inform us, at their
earliest convenience, of the result of their labours in our behalf,
for the Quarter now ended.
CATALLACTICS.
“ Terris Bonis et Catallis.” —Latv Latin.
The earliest remarkable agricultural fact recorded in
history is that of the seven years famine which pre-
vailed over Egypt, Syria and perhaps many of the
adjacent countries, about 1700 or 1800 years b. c.
A famine of equal duration and contemporaneous
occurrence is recorded in the Chinese annals, and
Gutzlaff and Thornton assume both of them to be the
same. The distance of the two regions, their dissi-
milarity in numerous respects, and their separation
by lofty chains, render this to our mind unlikely.
We think that in the earlier periods of Chinese history,
the rule applied which (until drainage became
common) applied to that naturally poor but now
eminently agricultural country Scotland, namely,
“ that a dry summer ne’er made a dear peck.” We
think the contrary was always the case with Egypt
and Palestine ; and a careful consideration of parti-
culars leads us to conclude that the proximate cause
of the dearth was a draught. There is no direct
intimation in holy writ to this effect, f and we have
not Josephus at hand to ascertain his view or the
tradition ; and the scanty notices given by Moses did
in fact produce a contrary impression when we first
gave our attention to the subject.
When Jacob directed his sons to proceed into Egypt
a second time to buy corn, it seems obvious that what
they had brought up the first time to supply the first
year’s failure was nearly exhausted, and that a second
year’s failure was seen to be inevitable. It is pro-
bable that they did not, on the former occasion, bring
up either more or less than a year’s supply ; not more— j
because they might hope to have some crop in due ;
time next year, and not less—because the journey was |
too-great to be performed again conveniently in one!
season. Let us say then that in the middle of the,
second year they were sent the second time. Note:
the directions which the Patriarch gives: “ Take of
the best fruits of the land in your vessels, and carry |
down the man a present, a little balm (balsamum i
gileadense) and a little honey, spices, and myrrh,!
(products of terebinth trees,) nuts, (pistacia) and I
almonds, (amygdalus.) All these, which were valu-1
able rarities in Egypt, were produced in great per- i
fection in Syria, and are those which require the j
largest quantity of moisture, as by them hydrogen is
assimilated in larger proportion to the other consti- !
tuents than by other classes of plants. We therefore
at first reasoned that a drought was not the cause of
scarcity, for we said the corn has failed but the
resinous and oleaginous products, which we should
suppose would suffer most, as being most dependent
on humidity, have not suffered at all. Moreover we
observed, further on, that the cattle, both of the
Egyptians and of the Patriarch, were “ to the fore”
in the latter years of the famine, (vide chap. 47, v.
1, 17.) The pasturage then having been spared, the
cause must have been different from a drought. Yet
we had a difficulty in imagining any other cause.
An excess of moisture, causing too high an inundation
of the Nile, would indeed operate destructively to the
agriculture of Egypt, but it could have no such fatal
effects on that of Syria, from the sides of whose slopes
and terraces it would flow off as rapidly as it fell.
On more carefully searching for intimations we found
two which led us back forcibly to the idea of a drought.
First—ln the prophetic dreams of Pharaoh, the seven
years of famine are likened to lean and ill favoured
kine, and to ears of corn blasted with the east wind.
Now, in, Egyptthe eastwind blowingfrom the deserts
of Arabia and Syria, would be of a scorching cha-
racter, and the leanness of kine would be occasioned
by a deficiency of grass, while they might yet be
preserved alive by the waters usually flowing in the
river independent of the inundation. A continued
prevalence of the scorching winds implies a general
drought in the quarter from which they blew—there-
fore it would be necessary to remove the family and
cattle from thence in the second year’s famine, as was
done. The country of Goshen seems to have been
then unoccupied, (there is reason to believe the
shepherd tribes had just been expelled,) and though
much parched w r ould still afford pasturage both for
Pharoah’s and Jacob’s stock —for cattle will live,
though they do not fatten, on little grass, if they
have plenty of water (We may by the nay observe
that Joseph’s device to buy all the cattle for Pharoah,
instead of allowing them to remain in the hands of
poor individuals, was probably the only means of
preserving them alive, and his purchasing of their
lands enabled him to return it to them as crown
tenants, under improved regulations of irrigation
&c.) The other intimation we have alluded to is the
statement of Joseph to his father, that for five years
yet to come there should be no earing—that is plough-
ing, and this is spoken with reference to the necessity
of his coming down from Syria. Nothing was so
likely to deter the husbandmen from ploughing, as a
want of the usual flood in the one country, and of the
usual spring rain in the other •, in other words, an
extended drought both in respect of place and sea-
sons. Our readers can scarcely conceive the conflict
that arose in our minds when we had these things
under consideration. To suppose a drought, seemed
inconsistent with the honey and spices and balm and
myrrh and nuts and almonds, all resinous and olea-
ginous commodities, and with Liebig s principles
which required that such products should fail more
decidedly even than the corn. We endeavoured to con-
nect the Chinese famine with the more western, but
we could not see satisfactorily that the two regions
were subject to the same influences. We endeavored
to deduce from the vicinity of the Mediterranean
some meteorological tendencies favourable to the one
class of plants and not so to the other. We thought
of the deluges of Ogyges and Deucalion, and the
bursting of the Caspian and Bosphorus, and altera-
tion of the level of the Mediterranean, which might


have produced disturbing effects on the Nilotic phe-
nomena, and on the weather generally. We supposed
a transposition and displacement of the dry and
rainy seasons, and a pernicious blast blowing only
occasionally and with a partial influence. We thought
of the rotatory theory of winds, and the alternate
motion and friction of currents oppositely directed,
till Ave thought our brains would jump out of our
skull. At length it occurred to us, that the sons of
Heth and of Jacob, though they said nothing about
it, might have had some method of preserving their
honey, turpentine, balsams, and nuts, and Jordan al-
monds, from one year to another, and that, after all,
what they brought down to Egypt, in the second year
of the dearth, as a present, might be only a small
quantity remaining from the fruitful seasons that had
preceded that great calamity.
It was dignus vindice nodus to save the world by
extraordinary precautions from the fatal effects of so
general a scarcity, for all countries came into Egypt to
buy corn, that is, at least all countries then known on
only the eastsideof the deserts, for St. Stephen speaks
of Egypt and Chanaan, as experiencing the great
affliction. But at that early stage of the world the
human being had scarcely appeared in Europe. The
race was concentered round the original habitat west-
ward of the deserts, or in those two countries above-
mentioned. In these circumstances it was also nodus
vindice dignus to rescue the lands of Egypt, the cradle
of the arts, and afterwards the granary of the world,
from an ignorant, selfish, private system of manage-
ment, and introduce good engineering with reference
to the annual overflow. Who can tell that most ca-
lamities have not like purposes ? A purpose of im-
provement not yet apparent may have occasioned the
drought which prevailed here from 1838 to 1840.
That it has improved individual hearts we are certain
—even that is enough—but we think time will enable
us to trace a purpose more general. Time may also
convince us, indocile as we are, in a severe manner, that
unless we are willing to carry out the purposes of our
benign Creator, new calamities will arise obedient to
his will. Our greed, our obstinacy, our contempt of
the dictates of nature, benevolence and justice, are j
obstacles to his designs, which he will not fail, how- i
ever long he may endure them, finally and signally
to remove.
GAFFER GRAY.
CHEMICAL PHILOSOPHY.
CONTINUATION OF VEGETABLE CHEMISTRY ON GUMS.
It is the opinion of many persons in this country,
that the various gums found here might be an avail-
able article of commerce. The gum of the mimosa
tree is eaten by the natives, and the taste approved
by the English, and though of a different nature to
that sent to England from New .Zealand, might prove
to possess either medicinal or chemical properties.
The common bush gum tree might, if experimented
upon, also prove to have the property of the tannic
acid. The caoutchouc, found in every flower-garden
around us, and shown at the floral show in great per-
fection, might have a separate ground for their ex-
clusive cultivation and be a source of traffic even to
those parts from whence it originally proceeded to us,
in as much as through the agency of the English
and Fiench, the variety of useful purposes to which
it can be applied has been so multiplied and enlarged,
that in many instances their own elastic gum would,
when exhibited to them, not be recognized. The In-
dian rubber tree was first known to us as an East In-
dian and South American tree. This curious vegeta-
ble product exudes from the tree in the form of a
white milky juice. When it is required by the natives
they make incisions in the bark, when it issues out
plentifully ; a mould of sand is placed to receive it
as it trickles down ; the mould is then removed that
the first layer may dry, after which another is allowed
to fall on it this process is continued until its sub-
stance is become sufficiently thick for the purposes
required. It becomes darker as it dries, but is fre-
quently blackened with smoke by the natives who use
it for shoes and bottles. It is very easily dissolved
in turpentine, and then it has the appearance of
melted glue. Of late years it has been used as a paste
to rub over cloth or leather to render them waterproof.
Dissolved caoutchouc is the substance used by the
celebrated MTntosh for rendering his coats and
cloaks impervious to the air or moisture. It is also
used for inflated cushions, and at the suggestion of
Dr. Arnott, this material is sometimes filled with
water and used as a bed for invalids.
Since the discovery of the manifold uses to which
the caoutchouc can be applied, the juice of the plant
has been extensively imported. It is of a pale yellow
colour, of the consistence of cream, but passes through
many chemical processes before it becomes in a con-
dition for its numerous and useful applications and
contrivances. The bottles are however still used on
most occasions, as they are easily dissolved, and then
cut into extremely thin threads. Bands, garters,
braces, shoe ties, indeed every thing where elasticity
is required, it is used for, and has entirely superseded
the wormed wire formerly used for the same purposes.
One of the gums most in use in all countries is
gum Arabic. This flows from the acacia tree, hitherto
found only in Arabia, and on the banks of the Nile
It is used in medicine to form emulsions, it is used
also to give lustre to crapes and other silk stuffs and
as a cement. ;
There are other varieties of gums in nature, some
flowing from the branches and trunks of trees others
from fruits in the form of mucilage which dries and
hardens in the air, and some from seeds and roots
We owe much to Mr. Grayling for putting us in
possession of the knowledge of the latent riches of
these lands around us, and had he taken up and
worked but one of the metals, minerals, earths or
plants, that he has discovered, he might have become
a prosperous man ; and if he had only gathered his
specimens and displayed them to the public they
would have made him popular, and many would
have taken an interest in them and him. Such is
not now the case.
B.
MR. AND MRS. DOBKINS.
a romance of the city.
Our street is an extremely handsome one; in fact
an excellent street, though it does not at all possess
anything more peculiar in its characteristics than the
general run of the streets in the City of the South •
that is to say, that it has the usual complement of trim
verandah cottages weather-boarded, green-shuttered
dwe lings, With here and there a few three-storied
brick houses, raising their bold bullying fronts as if
in contempt, high over the roofs of their humble


neighbours ; a reasonable share of fruit-stands, chan-
dlers’ shops, and wood-yards, with a public-house,
accompanied by a solitary gas-lamp at the corner.
But it is not to exterior pomp or architectural deco-
ration that our street owes any of that deep and
romantic interest, which time and its own inhabitants
have gradually thrown around it ; sources of far
higher character have lent their aid to give our good
- old avenue that strong claim upon its denizens that
it possesses. The memories of the past, and the asso-
ciations of the present, are ever independent of the
power exercised by outward circumstances.
Exactly in the centre of our street, there stands a
small dwelling, of very handsome appearance —small
indeed, and yet quite large enough for love and joy
to dwell in, without the company of sorrow', and free
from the troublesome visits of want. It is of brick,
yet plastered to a hue of whiteness almost dazzling,
while its fa9ade consists of a verandah with a green
top, and slender white columns prettily festooned with
English ivy and clematis, into which, two French-
lights, beaming wdth the radiancy of plate-glass and
crimson hangings, and a hall-door stained in imitation
of beech, and adorned with a black knocker and a
bright brass-plate, afford egress. In this verandah
are placed, at opposites sides, tw r o rustic benches com-
posed of the limbs of some unknown trees, w r hich are
twisted into the most fantastic and unnatural shapes
it is possible to conceive ; their effect being heightened
by a coat of green paint, and a scroll bearing the
owner’s name. In front of the cottage itself, there
are two thickly-grown loquat-trees, and a tall acacia,
which, with the addition of some half-dozen rose-
bushes, give it an inexpressibly quiet and rural air,
while they act as excellent preservatives from the hot
garish beams of the noonday sun. Then there are
the flow r er-plots laid out in squares and ovals and
diamonds, with a pretty liberal sprinkling of light-
brown loam, and a miscellaneous collection of flow r ers,
the whole being enclosed and protected by a light
w r ooden railing, mounted on a stone w r all of rather
unusual height, but which is by no means unneces-
sary, in consequence of the declivities occasioned in
our street by the town-improvements and cuttings-
down in the year of grace, one thousand eight hundred
and thirty-six. This really charming domicile, my
good reader, is the retreat of Mr. and Mrs. Dobkins,
the happy home of an amiable and affectionate couple,
and the scene of some of the brightest of those pure
knd quiet enjoyments w r hich conjugal love can alone
confer upon our lives, illuminating from the lamp of
peace the dull solitary paths of existence.
Mr. Dobkins is a middle-aged gentleman, which,
according to Byron, is equivalent to “ no age at all
but be that as it may, Mr. Dobkins is a steady cre-
ditable man, generally speaking •. one who knows
perfectly what the world is about, can unlade a ship,
make out a bill of sales, close a consignment, or
smoke a cigar and sip a “ nobbier of hot” as well as
any man in the territory. The two most remarkable
traits in Mr. Dobkins’ character, are a wild devil-
may-care notion of rambling, that will now and then
intrude itself into the sensorium of his brain, and
keep its hold with a species of tenacity near akin to
monomania; and it is in this state that my excellent
friend has committed vagaries, which, to say the least
of them, are as strange and extraordinary as unlooked-
for in an individual of his personal appearance and
generally sedate and settled characteristics. The
| other point in the worthy man’s composition is one
j equally honourable to his feelings as a man and his
| duties as a Christian :itis a deep, a pure, an earnest,
and a devoted passion for the partner of his heart and
home—a tender and manly affection for his wife,
devoid of uxoriousness on the one hand and indif-
ference on the other. Mrs. Dobkins, a sweet dark-
eyed creature, all liveliness and elasticity, cherishes
in return an affection the most lively for her lord,
and her only weakness, for folly it cannot be called,
is rather an overweening partiality for satin bonnets
and China parasols, balzarine dresses, and flounces
a la Turcque , evening parties, and drives in the
phaeton. If ever man loved his wife as husband
should do, it is my excellent neighbour;—if ever
woman fulfilled the sacred treaty ratified at the altar,
as woman should do, loving, honouring, and obeying,
that woman is Arabella Dobkins.
**** ****
Tt was just eleven in the morning, the time when
traffic begins to spread her mighty wings over the
busy city, and Mr. Dobkins arrayed in his blouse, and
the various et ceteras of his summer costume, with
his white hat on his head, and his gold chain dang-
ling from the pockets of his black velvet waistcoat,
was taking his way with slow and dignified steps
tow'ards his place of business, that I accosted him
with the usual salutations of time and place, and our
road laying in precisely the same direction, these
greetings assumed a more conversational cast, running
somewhat in the following strain :
“ Good morning Mr. Dobkins.”
“ Good morning to you, sir.”
“ Extremely fine weather, sir— anything new?”
“ Why, no—save you would accord that designa-
tion to comething' connected with mjsclf , I’ve a job
in the discharging of the ‘ Bristol; and what I anti-
cipate to he a troublesome piece of business with that
little New Zealand trader—the ‘ Tartar.’ ”
Mr. Dobkins was getting prosy, so without more
ado, I allowed him to run on as he pleased, and the
reader shall see how r I w r as enlightened for my
patience. _ j
Do you know my good friend that Ive formed
half a resolution already to take a trip to New Zea-
land—just by way of a bit of fun you know”—and
here Mr. Dobkins winked knowingly, and pulling
out his handkerchief* blew his nose twice or thrice,
then proceeded—“ It would be a capital joke indeed,
sir, a bachelor trip to New Zealand and nobody
being the wiser of it—a little rusticating among the
cannibal islands, eh!—just a pic-nic for variety sake
at lanaivakara —and comeback with a cargo of spars
and linum usitatissimum —why, it would be capital.
I perfectly acquiesced with Mr. Dobkins in the
humorous manner in which his plan might be earned
out, and in the perfect originality of his idea, at the
same time congratulating him upon the happy and
uncommon powers of facets with which nature had
endow-ed him ;he went on —
“ I’ve often had a waggish trick of this nature in
my head, but I’ll be hanged, sir, if I can keep the imp
of mischief down for the last few days,—l should like
to know if a man could carry his head safe on his
shoulders, that is to say, without getting it knocked
off with a tomahawk, for his pains, the
space of a month, in those savage islands.”
“ My dear sir,” I replied, “if you are in earnest,
consider, pray consider what would possibly become


of Mrs. Dobkins if you should carry any such plan
into execution—imagine, sir, the state of painful
excitement both of body and mind that your amiable
spouse would actually suffer in the interim if you—
excuse me, sir,—of your foolish jaunt.”
“ Why, look ye sir, I’ll settle that in half a minute
—I believe that it is known to you that no man bears
a deeper regard for his wife than I do, from one end
of New South Wales to the other ” he replied.
I bowed affirmatively.
“ Well then —I shall take measures for quieting
any uneasiness that might be felt upon that score—
and as for managing that business shan’t go to the
dogs during my absence, leave that to me ; —a colo-
nist of eight and twenty years standing to take care o:
number one, against the whole world.”
“ Very good,—very good indeed, sir,” I ejaculated
looking at my watch.
“ If anything should turn out,” said Mr. Dobkins,
turning down Market-street, “ you’ll have the good-
ness to keep silent on the subject.”
I bowed and we parted ; —he to settle the business
concerning the New Zealand vessel, and I to attend
to the duties of my calling, where immersed in busi-
ness, and transactions of the most multifarious nature,
I soon forgot Mr. Dobkins and his wild and senseless
projects of enjoyments. Probably I should never
afterwards have recalled them to my memory, was it
not for the circumstance of Mrs. Dobkins calling on
me early next morning in a state of evident perturba-
tion, in order to learn from me some tidings of her
beloved husband, whose presence she had not beheld
since the previous day. It was most natural that the
conversation which passed between that gentleman
and myself on the morning in question ohould rush
immediately into my memory, but little dreaming of
the truth of my surmises I detailed it to the suffering
lady, who uttering a loud cry of grief and horror
sunk down to all appearance lifeless at my feet.
It was a considerable time ere she regained self-
possession, and then it was but to express her utter
despair of ever again embracing him. “ She knew,”
she said, “ it tvas one of those wild frolics which
formed so foolish a part of his character, but it was
impossible to see to what circumstances it might ulti-
mately lead.”
The week passed, and nothing further was heard of
Mr. Dobkins, save the announcement of his name in
the public prints as a passenger on board the ‘ Tartar’
for New Zealand, and after it came another w-eek,
and then another, and another, with precisely the
same results. It was not until three long and weary
months had passed away, and the gossips in our street
became tired of chatting over so extraordinary an
occurrence, that the grief of the bereaved wife com-
menced to settle down into calm but anxious hope.
Alas ! poor mortals that we are, we hope when we
expect not, and we grieve the deeper when that sickly
hope becomes sad reality.
********
It was late, —the night was dark and gloomy, and
the rain poured down in torrents, sweeping the filth
and dust into masses of moving slime and mud ; and
the broad fiery flashes of lightning played almost
terrifically in the lurid skies, revealing at intervals
with the exactitude of daylight, the dark rows of
houses and the shrinking passengers in the nearly
deserted thoroughfares of the city, and ever and anon
tinging the dark woods of the opposite shore of
Balmain with a flame-coloured and phosphorescent
appearance, when a man of stout and athletic propor-
tions, enveloped in a shaggy great coat and bearing a
thick cudgel in his hand, stepped from the deck of a
small schooner, upon one of the wharves of Darling
Harbour. This personage paused for a moment on
the wharf, as if to secure his pocket-book, or .some
valuable of the like nature in one of the capacious
receptacles that adorned each side of his over-all,
then wringing the wet from his opossum cap, he
grasped his cudgel more tightly, and walked onwards
at a smart pace, regardless alike of the pelting rain
or the blazing lightning which threatened at every
step almost literally to blind him. At length after
threading various dark streets and narrow lanes he
arrived in our street, opposite the small rail-gate of
the residence of Mrs. Dobkins. Here he stopped,
and looked up earnestly at the house, —there were
wax-candles in the drawing-room, and the reflection
of their rays through the heavy curtains of the
French-windows, fell in a flood of purple light on
the dark miry street, while musical sounds —those of
a piano forte or some sweet-toned instrument emitting
a sad and plaintive melody, might now and then be
distinguished amidst the monotonous pattering of the
rain—the notes went to the heart of that mysterious
man. He advanced, and with a slight effort opened
the gate, and, ascending the steps, stood at the door.
He knocked, but no answer was returned; again he
knocked, and the door forthwith opened by a servant
whom the lady of the house had but that day hired.
Without a word, he passed into the house—there was
a dead silence, the pianoforte had ceased its music,
but suddenly there came forth a shriek —but not of
fear, nor of horror, nor of grief, but decidedly and
undoubtedly of joy. What it betokened I know not,
but this I do know,-that Mr. Dobkins made as
sudden a re-appearance in the verandah of his
residence the next morning, as he had mysteriously
vanished three months before.
More the chronicler saveth not!
D. D.
Original Poetry.
THE NIGHT WATCHMAN’S MUSINGS.
No. IV.
If, as Doctors have propounded,
Earth and every thing’s surrounded
By a thin etherial fluid,
Polarised and endued
With the powers, we see let off
From curious jar and pile and trough,
Or creeping in the sailor’s compass,
Or flashing in the weathery rumpus,—
If this hypothesis be true,
Mark the result to me and you.
Polarity (as you perceive)
Is positive and negative.
The north and south ends of our glob®
Are each, as ’twere, a separate lobe:
Hence in the air, that like a robe
Close clings to antient boreal ground,
The positive atoms most abound.
But here, in callow New South Wales,
Nestling in Terra’s skirts and tails,
Magnetic influence prevails.
Electro-magnetism explains
Things that have puzzled wisest brains.
We, in middle life transplanted,
Who broad seas have cross’d undaunted,
And in burning zones have panted,
Coukl exist but little time


In this sultry thirsty clime,
Habits free and gross preserving,
Still from temp’rance-precepts swerving,
But that skyey powers display
A more mitigated sway,
And by this electric fluid
Limbs are lengthen’d, strength renewed,
In parts far downward from the brain,
Which doth conditions cool maintain.
An anthropologist will find
Good features in th’ Australian mind
So far as yet can be observed
They are not quarrelsome, nor fervid,
Zealous, nor generous, nor rash,
Nor given to hack, hash, smash and dash.
If flexible and apathetic,
Not wholly is the cause magnetic :
The fluid here indeed is minus,
And northern burners hence outshine us,
But teach us what is just and true,
Place noble objects in our view,
Which hitherto we have not known,
And speedily there shall be shown
Well-govern’d zeal and staunch adherence
And gentle force of perseverance.
Nought sweetens more this vale of trial
Than habits form’d of self denial.
By them the blessing is possess’d
Of mercy. —they are double bless’d.
They are the root and nutriment
Of all most lov’d and excellent,
In him whose grave ambition springs
From just account of passing things.
To him, in his continual fight,
In happy or in evil plight,
They yield a lasiing pure delight ;
They smooth his path till grows
The only pleasure that he knows.
A second true delight they prove
To those to whom he gives his love :
In easy unaffected guise
He every pleasing effort plies ;
In trifling and great gen’rous acts
He pays a punctual willing tax.
Through this world, its changes, chances,
Sorrows, adverse circumstances,
He with even step proceeds
As the line of duty leads.
Faith and reason vigour gaining,
Training, reigning, and restraining,
Prize ineffable obtaining,—
This, in high or mean condition,
Is a great and grave ambition.
Sometimes, slowly as I go,
I count each cross street, lane, and row,
Corner tavern, grocer’s shop,
Stall for greens, or steak and chop,
Craft in iron, wood, or leather,
Draper bland, and surgeon clever.
Would the Council me consult,
Man, and woman, child, adult,
All that dwell I could record,
In cottage old of weatherboard,
Storied house of brick or stone,
With verandah or with none,
1 the length and width could tell
And the annual worth right well.
Hush —a noise, —and snuff—a smell, —
Yes—l know them both full well—
’Tis the working still, no doubt,
Which I never can find out.
NOCTIVAGUS.
AUSTRALIAN FABLES.
No. IV.
THE EMU.
Nature thy works'are wondrous ! they abound
In all philosophy and fancy wed;
Thou City of the South art fruitful ground,
Whence should be reaped the produce of the seed,
Sown by the great Creator, in that land,
O’er which thy spires and towers uplifted rise;
Creatures of life ! trees ! flowers ! rocks! shelly strand 1—
Treasures of earth’s cold womb ! star spangled skies !
All cry aloud ; and with one voice exclaim, Australians rise !
Where from Hiero Caesarea’s towers,
Albion’s banner proudly smote the wind,
While from the neighbouring height sprung lusty roars
Of flame disgo'ging cannon, which, confined
By the surrounding woods, return’d again
Whence they had issued, looking on the crowd
Whose hearty shout renewed the fiery strain,
One of thy children, Nature, look’d and look’d with pain !
Held prisoner within the boundary
Of the vice-regal palace, wh’ erst had known
What were the sweets of sweetest liberty ;
Who where no foot of man e’er trod, had flown,
An Emu stood unheeded, and alone,
With neck outstretch’d and gazing on the throng,
She ponder’d to herself in Nature’s tone ;
Yet to herself she did not ponder long,
But sung aloud, and this the burden of her song!
Great are thy works O man ! most wonderful;
Thy power extends alike o’er land and sea ;
On this, thy fleets and navies hold the rule ;
On that, thy towers assert thy majesty:
In thy rejoicings here, thy power is shown,
The cannon’s roar ! the self propelling barque !
Strains of sweet minstrelsy! yet these alone
Are surely not thy joy ! hark mortals, hark!
And from the fire of Nature’s altar snatch a spark!
A spark will sometimes lighten when the blaze
Of the full fire would dazzle, and prevent
Perception else complete ; a spark may raise
A flame shall strengthen power else impotent ;
So Nature hails you, men rejoicing here,
She who might speak with thunder-crushing voice,
That should each heart press down with guilty fear,
Makes of a meaner, milder, means her choice :
Listen O men ! then sa*- if tb» s y°
Free once I wander’d where acacias bloom ;
’ Neath Eucalyptus’ and mimosa’s shade,
Or in cool streams I dared the burning noon.
O’er boundless plains at eventide I strayed;
Nor feared the boomerang nor spear; there first I learn’d
That Nature could rejoice! floods, hill, and dale ;
Forest and herb, beast, bird, and fish return’d
Daily their thanks to Him ; His power they hail’d
Who called them into being, who o’er all other powers hath
prevail’d.
There first I learned that man walk’d not alone,
That other beings held him company.
Some gay and light, in dazzling beauty shone,
Some terrible and dark, would force him down
To death and darkness with themselves to dwell.
These hold him prisoner, these make nature groan —
These make of man their servant to fulfil
Their dark designs ; and man, bv nature black, make blacker
still.
Surely O man ! to us hath Nature given
To see things wondrous, hidden from thy sight;
The lightning flash! the thunder crash from heaven—
God’s voice in this, in that an angel bright,
I Are plainly evident to Nature’s eyes ;
E’en now a shield, to guard, a sword, to strike,
i Are waving o’er your heads in yonder skies ;
Heedless ye move of shield and sword alike,
| Rouse men! nor wait until the sword of vengeance strike.
|
| Had I a soul like you to lift above,
j Not with the cannon roar would 1 rejoice.
I would deplore the anger, seek the love,
Of Him, who in the thunder lifts his voice.
Then haply would the sword from o’er your head,
Depart, no more to threaten ; while the shield
Of His protection should be there instead ;
And He who did the sword of vengeance wield,
Should to your waiting hearts peace and abundance yield!


A WORD TO CHARLES HARPUR.
(From a Correspondent.)
Every man at all acquainted with what has been done for the
cause of Australian literature, is familiar with the writings of
Charles Harpur; while at the same time every individual so
circumstanced must feel no ordinary gratification in perceiving
that he has come forward, a mighty phalanx in himself, to
join the ranks of the Colonial Literary Journal. The name of
Charles Harpur is as a magic-word to those of his countrymen
who have aught of communion with the graceful and the
beautiful in intellect. And well indeed may the sons of
Australia be proud of him—the native bard of the southern
isle, he whose genius has expanded amid the wilds of his
own rude, but well-beloved land, has struck its lyre to strains
of beauty and melody that might adorn more classic regions,
and throw even a brighter halo of poesy and imagination on
localities already glorious and sacred in the songs of the gifted.
His conceptions open forth a world of richness and originality,
and there is to be found beneath each and all of his effusions
a mine of pure and chastened beauty.
It is universally admitted that Australia is now fast ap-
proaching that climacteric, when nothing short of a wide and
universal step in intellectual culture will serve to supply wants
which are deeply and generally understood. Yes ! thanks to
that benevolent and omniscient Providence, which has so
ordered it, the day is coming when despite of all the adaman-
tine barriers that prejudice and ignorance may oppose to their
progress, genius and taste, the hand-maids of knowledge and
civilization, shall put on their robes of ethereal light and pass
throughout the land : when the darling hopes, the day-dreams,
and the spirit-haunting thoughts of those enlightened men,
who in every period of our short existence as a community
delighted to indulge, will be realized to a degree never thought
of in the wildest flights of the imaginations that gave them
birth. We are not expatiating on fantastic theories, nor are
we digressing on subjects that the wise and considerate may
call absurd and meaningless—our opinions but echo the sen-
timents of the many. Our beautiful land has already brought
forth men of sterling talent, and shall not the thought perish
that men of equal, if not superior ability, may not rise up in it
for the future time !
Let Charles Harpur then come forward! God has blessed
him with rich and rare powers, ar.d has, we sincerely believe,
implanted in his bosom a pure and generous love of country’,
—a patriotism which animates and gives force and brilliance
to bis effusions. Let him come forward and occupy that place
to which his exalted abilities entitle him—as the guiding-star
of his countrymen in the glorious and soul-elevating paths of
literature,—of a literature national and Australian, for if it
be worthy the land of its origin, the terms are synonymous !
In the name of our common country we call upon him! the
field is an open and splendid one, it is redolent of all that is
rare and exquisite on the wide face of this beautiful earth, and
its abundance has as yet experienced not the sickle of the
reaper. Be it the task of her sons to garner in the harvest that
lays before them. In the name of Australia we call upon
him ! not to the sacrifice of his necessary avocations in life, '
not to the neglect of those duties which society has imposed
on him, nor to aught that may derange the order of affairs
which the circumstances of life have rendered imperative ; but
simply and emphatically to assist in a cause, which we are
sensible no man values more highly, or has more deeply at I
heart, than himself. Let Charles Harpur come forward, and
by his own example, give a blow to that listlessness and dis-
graceful lethargy—disgraceful to us individually as Australians,
and collectively as a community, which has so long enfettered
the genius of the land—the baleful aconite which impregnates
its brightest and fairest springs, and the Delilah of every tiling
great and good among us. By such means may he lead the
strains of his country, (and by patience and perseverance on
our own part,) to that wished-for degree, so well exemplified
in his own ardent and impassioned address to the Lyre of
Australia— 3
“ And ever thy lays to her sons and her daughters,
Should breathe oi the land where the evergreen grows—
To men’s souls iike a strong wind that stirreth the waters,
To the heart like a spring-breeze that opens the rose.’’
A SON OF THE SOIL.
[\\ e are happy to state that we are in possession of addi-
tional contributions from Mr. Harpur, which will receive our
prompt attention.—Ed. C. L. J.J
Shipping Entdltgcncc.
ARRIVALS.
March 20.—The brio; Britomart, Keld, from Singapore the
16th January, and Adelaide the 10th instant.—The schooner
Wave, Birkinshaw, from Port Phillip the 12th instant.—The
steamer Thistle , Mulhall, from Moreton Ray the 16th instant.
—The steamer Maitland, Parsons, from Port Macquarie.—The
schooner Vanguard, Pilfold, from Port Nicholson the 22nd
instant.
Marcli 21.—The brig Louisa, Tucker, from Hobart Town
the 16th instant. —The brig William , Thom, from Launceston,
the 14th instant.—The barque Sarah Scott, Bains, from Port
Albert the 15th instant. —The schooner Agenoria, Bently, from
Port Albert the 15th instant.
March 22.—The brig Spy, Paine, from Hongkong the 10th
January.—The schooner Success, M'Coy, from a Whaling
Voyage, via Twofold Bay, the 20th instant.—The steamer
William the Fourth, Wiseman, from the Clarence River, the
19th inst.—The brig Challenger, Archbald, from Hongkong,
the 19th January.
March 23.—The Government schooner Mary, Price, from
Hobart Town, the 17th Instant.
March 24.—The cutter Black Swan, Marsden, from Hobart
Town the 17th instant.—The schooner Mary Ann, Amner,
from Launceston the 10th instant.
March 25.—The barque Lindsays, Williarrso.i, from the
Whaling Grounds.
DEPARTURES.
March 20.—The ship Persian, Mallard, for London.—The
schooner Edward, Gray, for Boyd Town, Twofold Bay.
March 21.—The barque Raymond, M'Kay for London.
March 23.—The ship Margaret, Courtney, for the Whaling
Grounds.
March 25.—The brig Caroline, Passmore, for London.
Town Clerk's Office,
Sydney, 20 th March, 184 5.
NOTICE is hereby given, that the Assessment Lists of the
valuation of all flip property in Macquarif. anrl BoURKE
Wards are now open at this office, for the inspection of the
citizens of Sydney, and will so remain for thirty days from
this date; and that any citizen who may feel himself aggrieved
by the valuation put upon his premises, must lodge his com-
plaint in writing with the Town Clerk, before the expiration
of the said thirty days, to be submitted to the City Council for
their consideration ; but that after the expiration of thirty
days from this date, no complaint from any citizen shall be
received by the Town Clerk, or attended to by the Council.
By order of the Council,
JOHN RAE,
Town Clerk.
EONI-lETS.
JUST OPENED, four cases of new and fashionable
Bonnets, consisting of a complete assortment of
Ladies’, children’s, and maids’ Tuscan, Florence Tuscan,
Dunstable, Rutland, rice-straw, and fancy Bonnets, boys’
and infants’ Hats, &c. &c.
These Goods will be found well worthy of attention, and
will be offered at such prices as cannot fail to convince pur-
chasers of their being the cheapest in Sydney.
ALSO,
One case containing a general assortment of
BRUSHES.
Hair, tooth, nail and shaving brushes
Flesh brushes
Patent metal shaving boxes
Dressing and small tooth combs
Ladies’ side, neck and braid combs
White and all colours in seed beads for fancy work, with a
complete assortment of French and English PERFUMERY,
Eau de Cologne, &c. &c. &c., at
FITE & PRESTON’S
Emporium, 263, Pitt-street.
WAiXEU’S £*©o3*
IS particularly adapted for sick children, and recommends
by. the faculty in cases of dysentery. Sold by all tin
Druggists and Grocers.
February Bth, 1845.


NEW STATIONERY ESTABXiXSHIVIENT,
476, GEORGE-STREET.
HHHE undersigned having this day opened, in connexion
X with their present Engraving, Copperplate, and Letter-
press Printing Office, a Shop for the sale of every description
of fancy and useful Stationery, beg the favour of a visit from
their friends and patrons, and assure the ladies, gentry, and
tradespeople of Sydney, with regard to the present addition
to their Establishment, that their expectations will be fully
realised if the same portion of public favour is shown upon
the Stationery, as upon the Printing Department, which they
have enjoyed for the last two years.
Double and single demy paper
Grocers’ and wrapping paper
Every description of Gillott’s genuine steel pens
Wedding cards Bill heads
Visiting ditto Bank cheques
Business ditto Promissory notes
Invitation ditto Imports
Address ditto Exports
Bills of lading Invoices
Bills of Exchange Cargo books
Together with every description of printed forms.
N.B.—A few numbers of Norie’s Epitome yet for sale.
Country orders punctually attended to.
J. T. & A. GROCOTT,
Engravers, Printers, and Stationers.
Phoenix Printing Office,
476, George-street, Sydney.
FUNERALS FURNISHED,
BY JOHN HILIr, JTJN.,
AT HIS FURNISHING ESTABLISHMENT,
No. —, King-street , Sydney.
To the Mechanics and Poorer Class of people of the City of
Sydney.
JOHN HILL, .TUN., begs to inform the above-mentioned
body of people, that in consequence of the reduced state
of times, he will conduct FUNERALS at the following low
rates, where every attention will respectfully he paid.
Full-mounted Coffin, with use of Hearse £2 0 0
Child’s Coffin, with use of Mourning Coach .... 1 10 0
TO THE LADIES.
CHRISTOPHER NEWTON AND BROTHER beg most
respectfully to apprise the ladies of this city and its
environs, that, owing to the advanced period of the season,
they have re-marked the whole of their
STOCK OF PARASOLS,
at a reduction of from twenty-five to thirty per cent., a correct
list of w’hich is annexed :
47 Brown Silk Parasols, marked at 2s. 6d., reduced to Is. 10Jd.
One trunk —being more or less slightly damaged—all have
been reduced to 4s. 6d.; some previously marked as high as
16s. 6d.
An inspection of the above will justify the highest recom-
mendation.
Bee Hive, Pitt-street, March 10;
A CARD.
A PERSON, of steady habits, who has four or five hours to
j3_ spare daily, wants employment as Office keeper, Mes-
senger, or light Porter : he can also keep plain accounts.
Apply at the Office of this Paper.
316, PITT STRDRT.
THE GENERAL PRINTING OFFICE
AND
Office of the “ Colonial Literary Journal.”
BOOK-WORK and PAMPHLETS to any extent; also,
Posting-bills, Hand-bills, Circulars, Cards, Orders,
Receipts, Invoice Heads, Labels, Law Forms, Nautical Forms,
and any other description of Letter-press Printing, executed
on the shortest notice, and at reasonable charges, by
J. READING.
TO CHEMISTS, DRUGGISTS, AND OTHERS.
T)ECEIVED ex General Hewett, and other late arrivals, a
.[A; general assortment of Genuine Drugs and Chemicals,
consisting of— Fine Turkey Gum Arabic, Epsom Salts,
Senna, Calcined Magnesia, Sweet Spirits of Nitre, Essence of
Bergamotte, Carbonate of Soda, Opium, Poppy Heads, Sar-
saparilla, Finest Olive Oil in Jars and half Jars,
superior Cold-drawn Castor Oil, Hydriodatf, of Potash,
Acetate and Muriate of Morphia, Calomel, Balsam Capaiba,
Bucha Leaves, Turkey and East India Rhubarb, Camomile
Flowers, Cubebs, Corrosive Sublimate, Blue Stone,
Arsenic, Turpentine, &c., &c., &c.
A superior assortment of Hair,Tooth, Nail,Shaving,Flesh,
and Clothes Brushes
Violet Powder, Powder Boxes and Puffs
Ivory and Tortoiseshell Combs
White and brown Windsor Soap, in packets
Cold Cream, Bears’ Grease, &c., &c.
also,
Henry’s Calcined Magnesia, American Soothing Syrups
Beatson’s Ring-worm Lotion, Butler’s and Hocking’*
Seidlitz
Cockle’s and Dixon’s Pills, and Murray’s Fluid Magnesia, in
pint bottles, 2s. each, &c.
A. FOSS,
313, Pitt-street North,
And corner of George and Pitt-streets.
HOW TO POSSESS A REAL GOOD HAT ! \ \
GO TO SMITH AND WESTEHEAD’S,
258, PITT-STREET.
THEY having been regularly bred to the trade, it is only
reasonable to infer that every article passing through
their hands will be of the very best quality, and of first-rate
workmanship.
Smith and V T hitehead were employed for eight years in the
celebrated houses of “Andre” and “Griffith’s,” both of Bond-
street, London, a sufficient guarantee as to their competency
for executing, correctly, all orders entrusted to them, in a
workmanlike manner, as to shaping and finishing.
Messrs. S. and W. beg to return their sincere thanks to
their friends and the public generally, for the very liberal
support they have enjoyed during the short period they have
been in business as Hat Manufacturers, and beg leave to
offer their superior and first-rate Hats, not only of the very
best quality, but at a lower figure than any Haberdasher, or
mere Hat Vender (not Maker,) can possibly do, notwith-
standing they may boast of their knowledge of a trade, which,
like every other, except that of humbug, requires a regular
apprenticeship.
Agents for this Journal.
Collector for Sydney Mr. Francis W r ye
Sydney, Mr. W r . Jones, Circulating Library, Brickfield-hill.
Parramatta Mr. Hugh Taylor.
Windsor Mr. Walker.
Bathurst Mr. Tress.
West Maitland Mr. Galloway:
Camden, Campbelltown, Penrith , and
Liverpool Mr. C. Lester.
Gunning Mr. Hawthorne.
Berrima Mr. Edwards,
Post Office.
