

COLONIAL
LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
“ NON TUA TE MOVEANT, SED PUBLICA VOTA.”
Vol. I. No. 9.]
SYDNEY, THURSDAY, AUGUST 22, 1844.
[Price 4d.
TASTE IN THE FINE ARTS.
The term taste being undefined, or not being subject
to any particular standard, has rendered it subject to
vague interpretations. It is allowed, however, to be
a qualification -which enables us to select, amongst
variety, the most'graceful or beautiful ; also to be a
faculty most desirable for the proper investigation of
subjects connected with the fine arts.
The power to judge of correctness of form and
beauty of colouring, is not common to all; but, it is
reasonable to conclude that, under similar circum-
stances of education and disposition, it would be so,
■ and that the same general standard of correctness
would be universally acknowledged. The ability to
distinguish between the ordinary and the beautiful,
may not require an exertion of critical acumen ; but,
amid the variety of forms and hues presented by nature
to our view, to determine what is most appropriate to
some particular purpose, or most nroper to be united
with others, demands an extensive intimacy with forms
and colours. Accordingly we find those who possess
these discriminations do not wander in uncertainty as
to the effect produced by such combinations of form
oi* colour—their mode of arrangement and power of
decision have reference to a standard of excellence.
The ideas of grace and beauty in the human figure,
for instance, entertained by the Greeks, are to" this
day acknowledged throughout the civilized world.
The frequent contemplation of works of nature or
art must tend to the advancement of the critical power
of taste. That faculty is inherent in us, and if we
exercise our powers, we are capable of improving
them into a sufficient knowledge of the fine arts for
all the purposes of judging correctly. We are not
gifted with at once a perfect taste, but it requires a
series of investigations, leading imperceptibly to a
conviction of the correctness of certain particulars on
which, the judgement could safely repose. During
such investigations or examinations our minds are
variously acted upon, our Jeelings differently affected :
they are touched by sudden impulses connected with-
our thoughts and ordinary pursuits, that it would be
surprising if a number of people were to declare their
opinions on a work of art, to have been derived from
a similar association of ideas. All might ao-ree in a
general expression of pleasure ; but pleasure is a
feeling that admits of various degrees of satisfaction,
influenced by the different modes by which the know-
ledge was attained. “ The imagination,” says Burke,
is the most extensive province of pleasure and pain,
as it is the region of our hopes and fears, and all our
passions, that are connected with them ; and whatever
is calculated to affect the imagination with these com-
manding ideas, by force of any original natural ex-
pression, must have powder pretty equally over
all persons. For, since the imagination is only the
representation of the senses, it can only be placed or
displaced with the realities, and, consequently, there
must be just as close an agreement in the imaginations
as in the senses of persons.” But neither our senses
nor our imaginations are invariably the same ; they
are operated upon by time, place, and circumstances.
To whatever extent these may promote or retard the
acquirement of taste, might be a useless inquiry, as
we know, that, by perseverance alone, the requisite
quickness of apprehension, or the cultivated under-
standing, can be derived, which enables us to feel that
our highest gratifications do not arise merely from
inspecting a work of art, but chiefly from those
acquired ideas with which such objects may be as-
sociated.
It is in the power of every individual to form a
comparative judgment of objects. The capacity to
retain in the mind’s eye so vivid a recollection of
remote objects, as to detect similarity in pictorial
representation, is a poAver requiring but little menial
exertion. To possess a feeling for the beautiful amid
the intricacy of natural forms and colours, and to
recognise them when represented, is an exercise of
taste in the fine arts. It is the basis on which refine-
ment may easily be elevated.
We may notice the affectation of musical taste, of
poetic feeling, and of intimacy with the art of painting.
Nothing can be more absurd than the constant effort
to appear wdiat we are not. Such a character must
be supported at considerable risk, and the dread of the
truth appearing demands greater mental exertions to
surmount, than even the stndy requisite for acquiring
a tolerable portion of sound information. We should
endeavour to become sensible of our defects, that we
may have some hope of their removal. All extraor-
dinary and hurried modes of obtaining information,
become stumbling blocks in the search for what is
genuine. Casual information may be useful; but should
be examined and its correctness ascertained before it
can become valuable to the searcher after taste in the
fine arts.
The productions of the pencil, the peculiarities of
style, enriched by beauty of colour, elegance of com-
position, or grandeur of effect, are so numerous, that
to be unacquainted with the principles of that power
which can so pleasingly affect our perception, influence


our feelings, or command our approbation, implies a
deficiency in education worthy alone of the dark ages.
To these undigested sentiments may be added that,
in this period of general improvement, it is absolutely
incumbent on us to read extensively, and to study
nature assiduously for the acquirement of taste to enable
us to appreciate talent, or to apply just and liberal
criticism.
THE BAKER.
[An Extract.]
The business of the Baker consists in making bread, rolls,
and biscuits, and in baking various kinds of provisions.
Man, who appears to be designed by nature to eat of all
substances that are capable of nourishing him. has, from the
earliest times, used farinaceous grains as his principal food;
but as these grains cannot be eaten in their natural state
without difficulty, means have been contrived for extracting
ihe farinaceous parts, and of preparing it so as to render it a
pleasant and wholesome aliment.
Those who are accustomed to enjoy .all the advantages of
the finest human inventions, without reflecting on the labours
it has cost to complete them, think all these operations com-
mon and trivial ; and it is not to bedfcondered that, to such,
there should appear nothing more easy than to grind corn, to
to make it into paste, and to bake it in an oven.
It is however certain that, for a long time, men did not
otherwise prepare their corn than by boiling it in water, and
forming viscous cakes, which were neither agreeable to the
taste, nor easy of digestion. To make good bread, it was
necessary to construct machines for grinding and separating
the pure flour with little labour and trouble ; and inquiries, or
perhaps accident, of which some observing person availed him-
self, discovered that flour, when mixed with a certain quantity
of water, and moderately heated, would ferment, by which its
viscidity might be nearly destroyed, and bread might be made
more pleasant to the taste, and easy of digestion.
No great care was taken in ancient times to bake bread :
the hearth of the fire was commonly used for the purpose.
This method is still adopted by the poor and lower class of
farmers, in many parts of England. The ancients laid upon
the hearth a piece of flattened dough, and covered it. with
hot ashes, under which it remained until it was sufficiently
baked. In England, at the present time, an iron pot is inverted
over the loaf intended to be baked, and placed upon the hot
hearth, and hot ashes are placed around and upon the pot.
The invention of ovens is, ancient. They are
spoken of in the time of Abraham. Some writers give the
honour of their discovery to a person named Annus , an Egyp-
tian, but who is wholly unknown in history. There is, however,
reason to believe that the ovens of the ancients were very
different from ours ; being, as far as we may judge of them,
made of a kind of earthen pan, which could be easily carried
from one place to another : indeed, this mode of* baking still
subsists in the East.
It is not known when this very useful business first became
a particular profession. Bakers were a distinct body of people
in Rome, nearly two hundred years before the Christian era,
and it is supposed that they came from Greece. To these
were added a number of freemen, who were incorporated into
a college, from which neither they nor their children were
allowed to withdraw. They held their effects in common,
without enjoying any power of parting with them. Each
bake-house had a patron, who had the superintendence of it
and one of the patrons had the management of the others, and
the care of the college. So respectable were the bakers at
Rome, that occasionally, one of the body was admitted among
the senators.
Even by our own statutes, the bakers are declared not to be
handicrafts.
Bread is made of flour, mixed and kneaded with yeast, water
and a little salt; the salt making the bread more perfect by
being dissolved in water, the fluid penetrating the flour in the
most intimate manner ; by which the bread becomes lighter,
better tasted, and will keep a longer time. It is known under
two names, the white, or wlieaten, and the household: these
differ onlv in degree of purity.
The process of bread-making is thus.descnbed ; to a peck
of flour are added a handful of salt, a pint of yeast, and three
quarts of water, cold in summer, hot in winter, and temperate
between the two seasons. The whole being kneaded, it will
rise in about an hour; it is then moulded into loaves, and pu£
into the oven to bake.
The oven takes more than an hour to heat properly : the
time ofjjaking is regulated by the quality of the flour, of the
dough, hard dough requiring more time than soft, and by the
size and form of the loaves. Half an hour is sufficient for
soft and spongy loaves of one pound weight, when there is no
milk in them, because water evaporates quicker than milk. A
loaf of twelve pounds should remain about three hours in the
oven ; of eight pounds, two hours ; of six pounds, one hour ;
of three pounds, fifty minutes ; of two pounds, three quarters
of an hour ; of one pound and a-half, thirty- five minutes ; of
one pound, half an hour. In general, the more surface the
loaves have, the sooner they are baked, whence it arises that
small loaves remain a less time in the oven, in proportion to
to their form and weight, than large ones.
Most bakers make and sell rolls in the morning ; these are
either common or French rolls: the former differ but little from
loaf bread : the ingredients of the latter are mixed with milk
instead of water, and the finest flour is made use of for them.
Rolls require only about twenty minutes for baking.
The life of a baker is very laborious ; the greater part of
the work being done by night; the journeyman is required
always to commence his operations about eleven o’clock in
the evening, in order to get the new bread ready for admitting
the rolls in the morning.
The price of bread is regulated according to the price of
wheat ; and bakers are directed in this by the magistrates,
whose rules they are bound to follow. By these the peck-loaf
must weigh seventeen pounds six ounces, avoirdupois weight,
and smaller loaves in the same proportion. Every sack of
flour is to weigh two hundred and a half, i. e. 2801bs. and
from this there ought to be made, at an average, twenty such
peck loaves, or eighty common quartern loaves.
If bread were short in weight only one ounce in thirty-six,
the baker formerly was liable to he put in the pillory ; and for
the same offence he may now be fined, at the will of the
magistrate, in any sum not less than one shilling, nor more
than five shillings for every ounce wanting; such bread being
complained of, and weighed in the presence of the magistrate,
within twenty-four hours after it is baked, as bread loses in
weight by keeping.
The process of biscuit-baking, as practised at the Victualling
Office at Deptford, is .curious and interesting. The dough,
which consists of flour and water only, is worked by a large
machine. It is then handed over to a second workman, who
slices it with a large knife for the bakers, of whom there are five.
The first, or themoulder, forms the biscuits two at a time; the
second, or marker, stamps and throws them to the splitter, who
separates the two pieces, and puts them under the hand of the
chucker, the man that supplies the oven, whose work of throw-
ing the bread on the peel must be so exact that he cannot look
off for a moment. The fifth, or the depositor, receives the
biscuits on the peel, and arranges them in the oven. All the
men woik with the greatest exactness, and are, in truth, like
parts of the machine. The business is to deposit in the oven
seventy biscuits in a minute; and this is accomplished with
the regularity of a clock, the clacking of the peel operating
like the motion of the pendulum. There are twelve ovens at
Deptford, and each will furnish daily bread for 2040 men.
The late improvements in the steam engine, however, have
doubtless caused alterations here as in most other trades.
It is said that scarcely any nation lives without bread; or
something as a substitute for it. In Lapland, where there is
no corn, a kind of cake is made of dried fish, .and the inner
bark of the pine ; this mixture would lead us to suppose that
they did not expect nourishment from it, but only a dry sub-
stance which should be eaten, and would distend the stomach
and bowels. The Norwegians make a bread that will keep
thirty or forty years ; and the inhabitants esteem old bread far
beyond that which is new; so much so, that particular care
is taken to have the oldest bread at their great feasts. It
frequently happens at the christening of a chilfl, that the guests
are supplied with bread which has been baked at tne birth of
the father, or even grand-father. This bread is said to be
made of barley and oats, and baked between two hollow stones.
“Robbing Peter to pay Paul” arose from the bishopric of
Westminster, (which Henry VIII. created with five others—
i e. Oxford, Peterborough, Bristol, Chester, am! Gloucester—•
out of the dissolved monasteries,) being soon after incorporated
with London, which is dedicated to St.' Paul, as Westminster is
to St. Peter. Dr. Thirlby was its ere and only bishop !
NiolocJc’s Textuary.


ON THE FORMATION OF CHARACTER.
[Continued.]
That character which is to raise a young man in the esteem
and respect of all with whom he has any connection, is not
to be won in one day, or one year. There are none who, upon
single occasions, have it not in their power to act with reso-
lution and spirit in the prosecution of some good end. The
very worst of men can do this ; the most irresolute have their
moments of firmness and action. But these do not form the
man! It is the steady and long-continued operation of the
principles embraced, shewing what they are, that makes up
the picture. It requires days and years of firm attachment to
correct motives of action to be an index to the character. A
single impulse, how beautiful so ever it may be, never can.
Learn then from this that it is not the single glitter of an hour
that is to be the test of your worth in society, but the sterling
metal which, amid the wear and tear of’the world, the more it
is worn the brighter it becomes. And learn also the high
importance of that Decision —that mental power which can
amid all the bufFetings in which you may be cast, bear tri-
umphantly onwards, clear and distinct, the impress of those
high and honourable principles with which you began your
career.
Conscientiousness is another virtue I should like to bring
before your attention, and it is one that in the spring-time of
life ought to be most especially cared for. Years will dim
the lustre of its worth, if by little and little we allow a selfish
spirit to encroach upon this feeling, which is generally so
vivid in early life. In all our transactions with our fellow-
men, a strict and important adherence to truth and justice,
even to scrupulous exactness, will, in the end, work its own
way. Selfishness, a total, or even partial, disregard of others’
interests, when they come in competition with our own, can
never attain its ends so surely as that line of conduct which,
while in search of its own aggrandisement, has always fully in
view what we owe to others. Lynx-eyed selfishness may be,
it is sure to be, foiled in its own snare. It is the mark of a
mean, a degraded mind, degraded not merely in the World’s
esteem, but in its own. It will be noted, and you may rest
assured, will be avoided. Every petty trick, every little artifice,
to outdo in your transactions, will only open the eyes of others,
and put them the more on their guard with you. One single
instance is enough, so beware of even one—it is never for-
gotten. When once confidence is shaken, how very hard it is
to regain it; years may not suffice ; perhaps, and very likely,
even a lifetime would not be enough. Proceed on the one
broad principle of the strictest rectitude everywhere, and at
every time : let no deviation from this ever occur, and you
will build for yourself a name, the possession of which you
will find, in more respects than one, to be more valuable
through life than the most gifted talismans that were ever
fabled.
Diligence in business is what I need hardly press upon the
attention of any; it speaks too plainly for itself. Nothing
can be done without it. Even in the best of “ times” is it to
be supposed that money (if that is your object) was to be had
for nothing ? There was, believe me, as much striving and
struggling then for wealth as now, if you will have it that
“ times” now are “ bad;” and shew me where, in the worst of
times, the hand of the diligent will not make rich. Activity
and perseverance in forwarding your own interests, or those
of others with whom you may be connected in business, will
find its own reward in the end. Confidence in you will be
strengthened, and your standing in society proportionably
raised.
“ Shew me the company you keep, and 1 will tell you what
you are l" is an old adage, and one it behoves’a young man
especially to bear constantly in mind. “ A man is known by
the company he keeps.'* Whatever degree of respect is paid
to the character of those you choose as companions, you can
expect no more to be paid to you. If they are above you, and
you can maintain their society, you will rise; but if they are
beneath you in their principles of action, though your own
were as pure and spotless as the sunbeams, you will be treated
as your associates; and how can you suppose yourself wronged
in such a case ? It is better, however, to have but few com-
panions. “ The habit I will next recommend,” says Paley,
in his charge to the clergy of the diocese of Carlisle, “ as the
foundation of almost all the good ones, is retirement. Learn
to live alone.” “To be able to pass our time with satisfac-
tion, alone, and at home, is not pnly. a preservative of cha-
racter, but the Very secret of happiness.” But how often, I
am sorry to say, is it otherwise with young men. They soon
get tired of their own society : their happiness is beyond them-
selves. But the words of the poet are true —
“ If happiness has not her seat
And centre in the breast,
We may be wise, and rich, and great,
But never can be blessed.”
This is with ourselves ; and what does society think of one
who is constantly to be found in a crowd of companions, never
pleased but when there, irksome and full of ennui when left
alone. What, but that there is no substantiality is his cha-
racter, that he has got no strength of mind to rely upon him-
self for spending pleasantly his leisure hours alone. He does
not stand upon the proud pre-eminence of one, who is better
pleased with his own society than with that of the triflers of
the passing hour—who is in this respect independent of them
all! To all who can appreciate their beauties, who can make
them companions, books form the truest, the best. There
we hold converse with the wise and good of all ages, and if
they produce the effects upon us, which they are calculated to
do, when carefully and attentively studied, we must pass from
our leisure hours to the business of the world, wiser and
better men.
Utterance, or the power of expressing ourselves well, and
I may say elegantly, is what is in the power of every young
man to attain, and ought by all means to be attended to. It
is a powerful introduction to him everywhere. He who cannot
open his mouth without breaking some rule of Grammar, or
shewing in his uncouth style of speech his vulgar breeding,
can never expect the same attention and consideration to
which those are unquestionably entitled who possess a correct
and pleasing delivery in style and language. The talents
these possess may be as great as those of the others; their
principles and habits may be as beautiful in themselves, but
the power of shewing them to advantage, is not to be slighted.
By reading, and attending to the style of the best writers, he
will insensibly gain a clear and forcible expression both in
speaking and writing, and he may depend upon it, he will
never regret the time and labour it cost him.
HORACE.
History.
ANCIENT HISTORY: SECTION VII.
EARLY PERIOD OF THE GRECIAN HISTORY. THE ARGO-
NAUTIC EXPEDITION. WARS OF THEBES AND OF TROY.
1. The history of Greece, for a period of 300 years
preceding the Trojan war, is intermixed with fables ;
but contains, at the same time, many facts entitled to
credit, as authentic. Erectheus, or Erichthonius,
either a Greek who had visited Egypt, or the leader of
a new Egyptian colony, cultivated the plains of Eleusis,


and instituted, in honour of Ceres, the Eleusinian
mysteries, in imitation of the Egyptian games of Isis.
These mysteries were of a religious and moral nature,
conveying the doctrines of the unity of God, the im-
mortality of the soul, and a future state of reward and
punishment. Cicero speaks of them with high enco-
mium. But the ceremonies connected with them
were childish and ridiculous. They were celebrated
in the autumn of every fifth year at Eleusis.
2. Theseus laid the foundation of the grandeur of
Attica, by uniting its twelve detached states or cities,
which before were governed by their own magistrates
arid laws. He gave them a common constitution
(1257 b.c.), abolished the separate magistracies, and
in conjunction with the principal men of each state,
framed a new code of laws.
3. The first great enterprise of the Greeks was the
Argonautic expedition to Colchis under the command
of Jason, 1263 b.c. (Usher), and 937 b.c. (Sir Isaac
Newton). This is supposed to have been both a mili-
tary and a mercantile adventure, and it was singularly
bold for the times in which it was undertaken. The
object was to open the commerce of the Euxine sea,
and to secure some establishments upon its Asiatic
coasts. For these purposes a fleet and troops were
necessary. The armament consisted of many ships,
of which Argo, the largest, was equal to about the
size of a modern vessel of 2.00 tons burden. The
astronomer Chiron directed the plan of the voyage,
and formed, for the use of the mariners, a scheme of
the constellations, fixing with accuracy the solsticial
and equinoctial points. Sir Isaac Newton has founded
his emendation of the ancient chronology, on a calcu-
lation of the regular precession of the equinoxes from
this period to the present, as well as on an estimate of
the medium length of human generations.
4. The state of the military art at this time in
Greece may be estimated from an account of the
sieges of Thebes and of Trov.
In these enterprises the arts of attack and defence
were very rude and imperfect. The siege was entirely
of the nature of blockade, and therefore necessarily
of long duration.—A dispute for the divided sove-
reignty of Thebes between the brothers Eteocles and
Polynices, the sons of CEdipus, gave rise to the war,
which, after a long contest, was terminated by single
combat, in which both were killed.
5. The sons of the commanders slain in this war
renewed the quarrels of their fathers, and occasioned
what was called the war of the E'pigonoi , that is, the
descendants or sons of the former, in which the city
of Thebes was entirely destroyed by the Argives.
Upon this subject Homer is said to have written a
poem, now lost, equal to the Iliad and Odyssey.
6. The detail of the war of Troy rests chiefly on
the authority of Homer, and ought not, in spite of
modern scepticism, to be refused, in its principal facts,
the credit of a true history.—After a blockade of ten
years, Troy w T as taken, either by storm, or surprise,
11 84 b.c. (Usher), and 904 b.c. (Sir I. Newton), and
being set on fire in the night, was burnt to the ground ;
not a vestige of its ruins existing at the present day.
The empire fell from that moment. The Greeks,
about eighty years after, settled a colony near the
spot; and the rest of the kingdom was' occupied by
the Lydians.
7. Military expeditions at this time were carried
on only in the spring and summer. In a tedious
siege, the winter was a season of armistice.—The
science of military tactics was then utterly unknown,
every battle being a multitude of single combats.—
The soldier had no pay but his share of the booty,
divided by the chiefs.—The weapons of war were the
sword, the bow, the javelin, the club, the hatchet,
and the sling. A helmet of brass, an enormous
shield, made of thin metal and covered with the hide
of an animal, a cuirass, and buskins, were the weapons
of defence.
A CHRISTMAS CAROL.
BY CHARLES DICKENS.
STAVE 11.-THE FIRST OF THE THREE SPIRITS.
When Scrooge awoke, it was so dark, that looking out of
bed, he could scarcely distinguish the transparent window
from the opaque walls of his chamber. He was endeavouring
to pierce the darkness with his ferret eyes, when the chimes
of a neighbouring church struck the four quarters. So he
listened for the hour.
To his great astonishment the heavy bell went on from six
to seven, and from seven to eight, and regularly up o twelve;
then stopped. Twelve I It was past two when he went to
bed. The clock was wrong. An icicle must have got into the
works. Twelve !
He touched the spring of his repeater, to correct this most
preposterous clock. <fts rapid little pulse beat twelve; and
stopped.
“ Why, it isn’t possible,” said Scrooge, “ that I can have
slept through a whole day and far into another night. It
isn’t possible that anything has happened to the sun, and this
is twelve at i oin !”
The idea being an alarming one, he scrambled out of bed,
and groped bis way to the window. He was obliged to rub
the frost off with the sleeve of his dressjng-gown before he
could see anything; and could see very little then. All he
could make out was, that it \tfas still very foggy and ex-
tremely cold, and ttoat there was no noise of people running
to and fro, and making a great stir, as there unquestionably
would have been if night had beaten offbrig'ht day, and taken
possession of the world. This was a great relief, because
“ three days after sight of this First of Exchange pay to Mr.
Ebenezer Scrooge or his order,” and so forth, would have
becqme a mere United States’ security if there were no days
to count by.
Scrooge went to bed again, and thought, and thought, and
thought it over and over and over, and could make nothing of
it. The more he thought, the more perplexed he was; ai d
the more he endeavoured not to think, the more he thought.
Marley’s Ghost bothered him exceedingly. Every time he
resolved within himself, after mature inquiry, that it was all
a dream, his mind flew back again, like a strong spring re-
leased, to its first position, and presented the same problem
to be worked all through, “ Was it a dream or not ?”
Scrooge lay in this state until the chimes had gone three
quarters more, when he remembered, on a sudden, that the
Ghost had warned him of a visitation when the bell tolled
one. He resolved to lie awake until the hour was past; and,
considering that he could no more go to sleep than go to
Heaven, this was perhaps the wisest resolution in his power.
The quarter was so long, that he was more than once con-
vinced he must have sunk into a doze unconsciously, and
missed the clock. At length it broke upon bis listening ear.
“ Ding, dong!”
“ A quarter past,” said Scrooge, counting.
“ Ding, dong!”
“ Half-past!” said Scrooge.
“ Ding, dong !”
“ A quarter to it,” said Scrooge.
“ Ding, dong !”
“The hour itself,” said Scrooge, triumphantly, “and
nothing else !”
He spoke before the hour bell sounded, which it now did
with a deep, dull, hollow, melancholy One. Light flashed
up in the room upon the instant, and the curtains of his bed
were drawn.
The curtains of bis bed were drawn aside, I tell you, by a
hand. Not the curtains at his feet, nor the curtains at his
back, but those to which bis face was addressed. The cur-
tains of his bed were drawn aside ; and Scrooge, starting up


into a half-recumbent attitude, found himself face to face with
the unearthly visitor who drew them : as close to it as I am
now to you, and I am standing in the spirit at your elbow.
It was a strange figure--like a child : yet’ not so like a
child as like an old man, viewed through some supernatural
medium, which gave him the 'appearance of having receded
from the view, and diminished to a child’s proportions. Its
hair, yrhich hung about its neck and down its back, was white
as if with age ; and yet the face had not a wrinkle in it, and
the tenderest bloom was on the skin. The arms were very
long and muscular; the hands the same, as if its hold were
of uncommon strength. Its legs and feet, most delicately
formed, were, like those upper members, bare. It wore a
tunic of the purest white ; and round its waist was bound
a lustrous belt, the sheen of which was beautiful. It held a
branch of fresh green holly in its hand ; and, in singular con-
tradiction of that wintry emblem, had its dress trimmed with
summer flowers. But the strangest thing about it was, that
from the crown of its head there sprung a bright clear jet of
light, by which all this was visible ; and which was doubtless
the occasion of its using, in its duller moments, a great ex-
tinguisher for a cap, which it now held under its arm.
Even this, though, when Scrooge looked at it with in-
creasing steadiness, was not its strangest quality. For as its
belt sparkled and glittered now in one part and now in
another, and what was light one instant, at another time was
dark, so (he figure itself fluctuated in its distinctness : being
now a thing with one arm, now with one leg, now with twenty
legs, now a pair of legs without a head, now a head without
a body : of which dissolving parts, no outline would be visible
in the dense gloom wherein they melted away. And in the
very wonder of this, it would be itself again ; distinct and
clear as ever.
“ Are you the Spirit, sir, whose coming was foretold to
me ?” asked Scrooge.
“ I am !”
The voice was soft and gentle. Singularly low, as if instead
of being so close beside him, it were at a distance.
“ Who, anti what are you ?” Scrooge demanded.
“ I am the Ghost of Christmas Past.”
“ Long past ?” inquired Scrooge: observant of its dwarfish
stature.
“No. Your past.”
Perhaps Scrooge could not have told anybody why, if any-
body could have asked him; but he had a special’ desire to
see the Spirit in his cap ; and begged him to be covered.
“ What!” exclaimed the Ghost, “ would you so soon put
out. with worldly hands, the light I give ? Is it not enough
that you are one of those whose passions made this cap, and
f. :ce me through whole trains of years to wear it low upon
my brow !”
Scrooge reverently disclaimed all intention to offend, or
any knowledge of having wilfully “bonneted” the Spirit
at any period of his life. He then made bold to inquire what
business brought him there.
“ Your welfare !” said the Ghost.
Scrooge expressed himself much obliged, but could not
heh'j thinking that a night of unbroken rest would have been
more conducive to that, end, The Spirit must have heard
him thinking, for it said immediately :
“ Your reclamation, then. Take heed !”
It put out its strong band as it spoke, and clasped him
gently by the arm.
“ Rise ! and walk with me !”
It would have been in vain for Scrooge to plead that the
weather and the hour were not adapted to pedestrian pur- !
poses ; that the bed was warm, and the thermometer a long !
way below freezing; that he was clad but lightly in his I
slippers, dressing-gown, and night-cap ; and that be bad a
cold upon him at the time. The grasp, though gentle as
a woman’s hand, was not to be resisted. He rose: but finding •
that the Spirit made towards the window, clasped its robe in
supplication.
“I am a mortal,” Scrooge remonstrated, “and liable to
fall.”
“ Bear but a touch of my hand there ,” said the Spirit, laying
it upon his heart, “ and you shall be upheld in more than
this !”
As the words were spoken, they passed through the wall,
and stood upon an open country-road, with fields on either
hand. The city had entirely vanished. Not a vestige of it
was to be seen. The darkness and the mist bad vanished !
with it, for it was a clear, cold, winter day, with snow upon !
the ground. ' 1
| “ Good Heaven !” said Scrooge, clasping his hands toge-
ther, as lie looked about him. “ I was bred in this place. L
was a boy here !” The Spirit gazed upon him mildly. Its
gentle touch, though it had been light and instantaneous,
appeared still present to the old man’s sense of feeling. He
! was conscious of a thousand odours floating in the air, each
one connected with a thousand thoughts, and hopes, and joys,
and cares, long, long forgotten !
“Your lip is trembling,” said the Ghost. “ And what is
that upon your cheek ?”
Scrooge muttered, with an unusual catching in his voice;
that it was a pimple; and begged the Ghost to lead him where
he would.
“ You recollect the way?” inquired the Spirit.
“Remember it!” cried Scrooge, with fervour—“l could
walk it blindfold.”
“ Strange to have forgotten it for so many years !” observed
the Ghost. “ Let us go on.”
They walked along the road ; Scrooge recognising every
gate, and post, and tree, until a little market-town appeared
in the distance, with its bridge, its church, and winding river.
Some shaggy ponies now were seen trotting towards them
with boys on their backs, who called to other boys in country
gigs and carts, driven by farmers. All these boys were in
! great spirits, and shouted to each other, until the broad fields
were so full of merry music, that the crisp air laughed to
hear it.
“ These are but shadows of the things that have been,” said
the Ghost. “ They have no consciousness of us.”
The jocund travellers came on ; and as they came, Scrooge
knew and named them every one. Why was he rejoiced
beyond all bounds to see them! Why did bis cold eye glisten,
and bis heart leap up as they went past! Why was he filled
with gladness when he heard them give each other “ Merry
Christmas,” as they parted at cross-road' 1 and bye-ways, for
their several homes ! What was merry Christmas to Scrooge ?
Out upon merry Christmas! What good had it ever done lo
him ?
“ The school is not quite deserted,” said the Ghost. “ A
solitary child, neglected by his friends, is left there still.”
Scrooge said he knew it. And he sobbed.
They left the high-road, by a well remembered lane, and
soon approached a mansion of dull red brick, with a little
weathercock-surmounted cupola, on the roof, and a bell
hanging in it. It was a large house, but one of broken for-
tunes ; for the spacious offices were little used, their walls
were damp and mossy, their windows broken, and their gates
decayed. Fowls clucked and strutted in the stables ; and the
coach-houses and sheds were overrun with grass. Nor was
it more retentive of its ancient state, within ; for entering the
dreary hall, and glancing through the open doors of many
rooms, they found them poorly furnished, cold, and vast.
There was an earthly savour in the air, a chilly bareness in
the place, which associated itself somehow with too much
getting up by candlelight, and not too much to eat.
They went, the Ghost and Scrooge, across the hall, to a
door at the back of the house.' It opened before them, and
disclosed a long, bare, melancholy room, made barer still by
lines of plain deal forms and desks. At one of these a lonely
boy was reading near a feeble fire; and Scrooge sat down
upon a form, and wept to see his poor forgotten self as he had
used to do.
Not a latent echo in the house, not a squeak and scuffle
from the mice behind the panneling, not a drip from the
half-thawed water-spout in the dull yard behind, not a sigh
among the leafless boughs of one despondent poplar, not
the idle swinging of an empty store-house door, no, not a
clicking in the fire, but fell upon the heart of Scrooge with
softening influence, and gave a freer passage to his tears.
The Spirit touched him on the arm, and pointed to his
younger self, intent upon his reading. Suddenly a man, in
foreign garments, wonderfully real and distinct to look at,
stood outside the window, with an axe stuck in his belt, and
leading an ass laden with wood by the bridle.
“ Why, it’s Ali Baba !” Scrooge exclaimed, in ecstacy. “ It’s
dear old honest Ali Baba ! Yes, yes, I know ! One Christmas
time, when yonder solitary child was left here all alone, he
did come, for the first time, just like that. Poor boy ! And
Valentine,” said Scrooge, “and his wild brother, Orson ; there
they go! And what’s his name, who was put down in his
drawers, asleep, at the Gate of Damascus ; don’t you see him !
And the Sultan’s groom turned upside-down by the Genii ,
there he is upon his head ! Serve him right. I’m glad of it!
What business had he to be married to the Princess!”


To hear Scrooge expending all the earnestness of his nature I
on such subjects, in a most extraordinary voice between laugh-
ing and crying ; and to see his heightened and excited face ;
would have been a surprise to his business friends in the
c ty, indeed.
“ There’s the Parrot!” cried Scrooge. u Green body and
yellow tail, with a thing like a lettuce growing out of the top
of his head ; there he is 1 Poor Robin Crusoe, he called him,
when he came home again after sailing round the island.
‘ Poor Robin Crusoe, where have you been, Robin Crusoe?’
The man thought he was dreaming, but he wasn’t. It was
the Parrot, you know. There goes Friday, running for his
life to the little creek ! Halloa 1 Hoop ! Halloo !”
Then, with a rapidity of transition very foreign to his usual
character, he said, in pity for his former self, “ Poor boy !”
and cried again.
“ I wish,” Scrooge muttered, putting his hand in his pocket,
and looking about him, after drying his eyes with his cuff:
“ but it’s too late now.”
“ What is the matter?” asked the Spirit.
“ Nothing,” said Scrooge. “ Nothing. There was a boy
singing a Christmas carol at my door last night. I should
like to have given him something : that’s all.”
The Ghost smiled thoughtfully, and waved its hand: saying
as it did so, “ Let us see another Christmas !”
Scrooge’s former self grew larger at the words, and the
room became a little darker and more dirty. The pannels
shrunk, the windows cracked ; fragments of plaster fell out of
the ceiling, and the naked laths were shown instead ; but how
all this was brought about, Scrooge knew no more than you
do. He only knew that it was quite correct; that everything
had happened so ; that there he was, alone again, when all
the other boys had gone home for the jolly holidays.
lie was not reading now, but walking up and down des-
pairingly. Scrooge looked at the Ghost, and with a mournful
shaking of his head, glanced anxiously towards the door.
It opened ; and a little girl, much younger than the boy,
came darting in, and putting her arms about bis neck, anc
often kissing him, addressed him as her “ Dear, dear
brother.”
“ I have come to bring you home, dear brother!” said the
child, clapping her tiny hands, and bending down to laugh.
To bring you home, home, home !”
“ Home, little Fan ?” returned the boy.
“ Yes !” said the child, brimful of glee. “ Home, for good
and all. Home, for ever and ever. Father is so much kinder
than he used to be, that home’s like Heaven ! He spoke so
gently to me one dear night when I was going to bed, that I
was not afraid to ask him once more if you might come home;
and he said Yes, you shbuld; and sent me in a coach to bring
you. And you’re to be a man !” said the child, opening her
eyes, “and are never to come back here ; but first, we’re to
he together all the Christmas long, and have the merriest time
in all the world.”
“ You are quite a woman, little Fan !” exclaimed the boy.
She clapped her hands and laughed, and tried to touch his
head ; hut being too little, laughed again, and stood on tiptoe
to embrace him. Then she began to drag him, in her childish
eagerness, towards the -door; and he, nothing loth to go,
accompanied her,
A terrible voice in the hall cried, “ Bring down Master
Scrooge’s box, there!” and in the hall appeared the school-
master himself, who glared on Master Scrooge with a ferocious
condescension, and threw him into a dreadful state of mind
by shaking hands with him. He then conveyed him and his
sister into the veriest old well of a shivering best-parlour that
ever was seen, where the maps upon the wall, and the celestial
and terrestrial globes in the windows, were waxy with cold.
Here he produced a decanter of curiously light wine, and a
block of curiously heavy cake, and administered instalments
of those dainties to the young people : at the same time, send-
ing out a meagre servant to offer a glass of “ something” to
the postboy, who answered that he thanked the gentleman
but if it was the same tap as he had tasted before, he hac
rather not. Master Scrooge’s trunk being by this time tied
on to the top of the chaise, the children bade the schoolmaster
good-bye right willingly ; and getting into it, drove gaily down
the garden sweep : the quick wheels dashing the hoar-frost
and snow from off the dark leaves of the evergreens like
spray.
“ Always a delicate creature, whom a breath might have
withered,” said the Ghost. •* But she had a large heart!”
“So she had,” cried Sjrooge. “You’re right. I’ll not
gainsay it, Spirit. God forbid !”
“ She died a woman,” said the Ghost, “ and had, as I
think, children.”
“ One child,” Scrooge returned.
“ True,” said the Ghost. “ Your nephew 1”
Scrooge seemed uneasy in his mind ; and answered briefly,
“ Yes.”
Although they had but that moment left the school behind
them, they were now in the busy thoroughfares of a city, where
shadowy passengers passed and repassed ; where shadowy carts
and coaches battled for the way, and all the strife and tumult
of a real city were. It was made plain enough, by the dressing
of the shops, that here too it was Christmas time again ; but
it was evening, and the streets were lighted up.
The Ghost stopped at a certain warehouse door, and asked
Scrooge if he knew it.
“ Know it!” said Scrooge. “ Was I apprenticed here?”
They went in. At sight of an old gentleman in a Welch
wig, sitting behind such a high desk, that if he had been
two inches taller he must have knocked his head against the
ceiling, Scrooge cried in great excitement:
“ Why, it’s old Fezziwig ! Bless his heart; it’s Fezziwig
alive again !”
Old Fezziwig laid down his pen, and looked up at the
clock, which pointed to the hour of seven. He rubbed his
hands ; adjusted his capacious waistcoat; laughed all over
himself, from his shoes to his organ of benevolence ; and
called out in a comfortable, oily, rich, fat, jovial voice:
“ Yo ho, there ! Ebenezer! Dick !”
Scrooge’s former self, now grown a young man, came briskly
in, accompanied by his fellow-’prentice.
“ Dick Wilkins, to be sure !” said Scrooge to the Ghost.
“ Bless me, yes. There he is. He was ery much attached
to me, was Dick. Poor Dick ! Dear, dear!”
“ Yo ho, my boys!” said Fezziwig. “ No more work to-
night. Christmas Eve, Dick. Christmas, Ebenezer! Let’s
have the shutters up,” cried old Fezziwig, with a sharp clap
of his hands, “ before a man can say, Jack Robinson !”
You wouldn’t believe how those two fellows went at it!
They charged into the street with the shutters —one, two,
t h ree —l )a d ’em up in their places—four, five, six—barred ’em
and pinned ’em—seven, eight, nine—and came back before
you could have got to twelve, panting like race-horses.
“ Hilli-ho!” cried old Fezziwig, skipping down from the
high desk, with wonderful agility. “ Clear away, my lads,
and let’s have lots of room here ! Hilli-ho, Dick ! Chirrup,
Ebenezer !”
Clear away ! There was nothing they wouldn’t have cleared,
away, or could’nt have cleared away, with old Fezziwig
looking on. It was done in a minute. Every moveable
was packed off, as if it were dismissed from public life
for ever more; the floor was swept and watered, the
lamps were trimmed, fuel was heaped upon the fire, and the
warehouse was as snug, and warm, and dry, and bright a ball-
room, as you would desire to see upon a winter’s night.
In came a fiddler with a music-book, and went up to the
lofty desk, and made an orchestra of it, and tuned like fifty
stomach -aches. In came Mrs. Fezziwig ; one vast substantial
smile. In came the three Miss Fezzivvigs, beaming and
loveable. In came the six young followers whose hearts they
broke. In came all the young men and women employed in
the business. In came the housemaid, with her cousin, the
baker. In came the cook, with her brother’s particular friend,
the milkman. In came the boy from over the way, w'ho was
suspected of not having board enough from his master; tiymg
to hide himself behind the girl from next door but one, who
was proved to have had her ears pulled by her mistress. In
they all came, one after another; some shyly, some boldly,
some gracefully, some awkwardly, some pushing, some pulling;
in they all came, any how and everyhovv. Away they all went,
twenty couple at once, hands half round and back again the
other way; down the middle and up again ; round and round
in various stages of affectionate grouping; old top couple
always turning up in the wrong place; new top couple starting
off again, as soon as they got there; all top couples at last, anti
not a bottom one to help them. When this result was brought
about, old Fezziwig, clapping bis bands to stop the dance,
cried out, “ Welt done!” and the fiddler plunged bis face into
a pot of porter, especially provided for that purpose. But
scorning rest upon his re-appearance, he instantly began
again, though there were no dancers yet, as if the other fiddler
had been carried home, exhausted, on a slimier; and lie were
a bran-new man resolved to beat him out of sight, or perish.
There were more dances, and there were forfeits, and more
dances, and there was cake, and there was negus, and theye


was a great piece of Cold Iloast, and there was a great piece of
Cold Boiled, and there were mince pies, and plenty of beer.
But the great effect of the evening came after the Roast and
Boiled, when the fiddler (an artful dog, mind! The sort of man
who knew his business better than you or I would have told it
him !) struck up “ Sir Roger de Coverley.” Then old Fezzi-
wig: stood out to dance with Mrs. Fezziwig. Top couple too;
with a good stiff piece of worth cut out for them ; three or
four and twenty pair of partners; people who were not to be
trifled with ; people who would dance, and had no notion of
walking.
But if they had been twice as many: ah, four times; old
Fezziwig would have been a match for them, and so would
Mrs. Fezziwig. As to her, she was worthy to be his partner
in every sense of the term. If that’s not high praise, tell me
higher, and I’ll use it. A positive light appeared to issue
from Fezziwig’s calves. They shone in every part of the dance
like moons. You could’nt have predicted, at any given time,
what would have become of ’em next. And when old Fezzi-
wig and Mrs, Fezziwig had gone all through the dance ; advance
and retire, hold hands with your partner ; bow and curtsey;
corkscrew ; thread-the-needle, and back again to your place ;
Fezziwig “ cut” cut so deftly, that he appeared to wink with
his legs, and came upon his feet again without a stagger.
When the clock struck eleven, this domestic ball broke up.
Mr. and Mrs. Fezziwig took their stations, one on either side
the door, and shaking hands with every person individually as
he or she went out, wished him or her a Merry Christmas
When every body had retired but the two ’prentices, they did
the same to them ; and thus the cheerful voices died away,
and the lads were left to their beds, which were under a counter
in the back shop.
During the whole of this time, Scrooge had acted like a man
out of his wits. His heart and soul were in the scene, and
with his former self. He corroborated everything, remem-
bered everything, enjoyed everything, and underwent the
strangest agitation. It was not until now, when the bright
faces of his former self and Dick were turned from them, that
he remembered the Ghost, and became conscious that it was
looking full upon him, while the light upon its head burnt
very clear.
“ A small matter,” said the Ghost, “to make these silly
folks so full of gratitude.”
“ Small!” echoed Scrooge.
The Spirit signed to him to listen to the two apprentices,
who were pouring out their hearts in praise of Fezziwig : and
when he had done so, said,
“ Why ! Is it not? He has spent but a few pounds of your
mortal money: three or four perhaps. Is that so much that
he deserves this praise ?”
“It isn’t that,” said Scrooge, heated by the remark, and
speaking unconsciously like his former, not his latter, self.
“It isn’t that, Spirit. He has the power to render us happy
or unhappy ; to make our-service light or burdensome ; a plea-
sure or a toil. Say that his power lies in words and looks ;in
things so slight and insignificant, that it is impossible to add
and count ’em up : what then ? The happiness he gives, is
quite as great as if it cost a fortune.” He felt the Spirit’s
glance* and stopped.
“ What is the matter ?” asked the Ghost.
“ Nothing particular,” said Scrooge.
“ Something, I think?” the Ghost insisted.
“No,” said Scrooge. “No. I should like to be able to
say a word or two to my clerk just now! That’s all.”
“ His former self turned down the lamps as he gave utterance
to the wish; and Scrooge and the Ghost again stood side by
side in the open air.
“My time grows short,” observed the Spirit. “ Quick !”
This was not addressed to Scrooge, or to any one whom he
could see, but it produced an immediate effect. For again
Scrooge saw himself. He was older now ; a man in the prime
of life. His face had not the harsh and rigid lines of later
years; but it had begun to wear the signs of care and avarice.
I here was an eager, greedy, restless motion in the eye,
which shewed the passion tha: had taken root, and where the
shadow of the growing tree would fall.
He was not alone, but sat by the side of a fair young girl in
a mourning-dress ; in whose eyes there were tears” which
sparkled in the light that shone out of the Ghost of Christmas
Past.
“ matters, little,” she said softly. «To you, very little.
Another idol has displaced me ; and if it can cheer and comfort
you in time to come, as I would have tried to do, I have no
just cause to grieve.”
“ What idol has displaced you ?” lie rejoined.
“ A golden one.”
“This is the even-handed dealing of the world!” he said.
“ There is nothing on which it is so hard as poverty; and there
is nothing it professes to condemn* with such severity as the
pursuit of wealth !”
“You fear the world too much,” she answered, gently.
“ All your other hopes have merged into the hope of being
beyond the chance of its sordid reproach. I have seen your
nobler aspirations fall off one by one, until the master-passion,
Gain, engrosses you. Have I not ?”
“What then?” he retorted. “Even if I have grown so
much wiser, what then? I am not changed towards you.”
She shook her head.
“ Am I ?”
“ Our contract is an old one. It was made when we were
both poor and content to be so, until, in good season, we could
improve our worldly fortune by our patient industry. You
are changed. When it was made, you were another man.”
“ I was a boy,” he said impatiently.
“ Your own feeling tells you that you were not what you
are,” she returned. “ I am. That which promised happiness
when we were one in heart, is fraught with misery now that wo
are two. How often and how keenly 1 have thought of this,
I will not say. It is enough that I have thought of it, and can
release you.”
“ Have I ever sought release?”
“In words. No. Never.”
“In what, then ?”
“In a changed nature ; in an altered spirit; in another
atmosphere of life; another Hope as its great end. In every-
thing that made my love of any worth or value in your sight.
If this had never been between us,” said the girl, looking
mildly, but with steadiness, upon him ; “ tell me, would you
seek me out and try to win me now ? Ah, no 1”
He seemed to yield to the justice of this supposition, in spite
of himself. But he said, with a struggle, “ You think not.”
“ I would gladly think otherwise if I could,” she answered,
“ Heaven knows! When / have learned a truth like this, I
know how strong and irresistible it must be. But if you were
free to-day, to-morrow, yesterday, can even 1 believe that you
would choose a dowerless girl—you who, in your very con-
fidence with her, weigh everything by gain : or, choosing her,
if for a moment you were false enough to your one guiding
principle to do so, do I not know that your repentance and
regret would surely follow ? Ido ; and I release you. With
a full heart, for the love of him you once were.”
He was about to speak ; but with her head turned from him,
she resumed :
“ You may —the memory of what is past half makes me hope
you will—have pain in this. A very, very brief time, and you
will dismiss the recollection of it, gladly, as an unprofitable
dream, from which it happened well that you awoke. May
you be happy in the life you have chosen !”
She left him ; and they parted.
“ Spirit!” said Scrooge, “ show me no more ! Conduct me
home. Why do you delight to torture me ?”
“ One shadow more !” exclaimed the Ghost.
“No more I” cried Scrooge. “No more. I don’t wish to
see it. Show me no more !”
But the relentless Ghost pinioned him in both his arms, and
forced him to observe what happened next.
They were in another scene and place: a room, not very-
large or handsome, but full of comfort. Near to the winter
fire sat a beautiful young girl, so like the last that Scrooge
believed it was the same, until he saw her, now a comely
matron, sitting opposite her daughter. The noise in this room
was perfectly tumultuous, for there were more children there
than Scrooge in his agitated state of mind could count; and,
unlike the celebrated herd in the poem, they were not forty
children conducting themselves like one, but every child was
conducting itself like forty. The consequences were uproarious
beyond belief; but no one seemed to care ; on the contrary,
the mother and daughter laughed heartily, and enjoyed it very
much ; and the latter, soon beginning to mingle in the sports,
got pillaged by the young brigands most ruthlessly. What
would I not have given to be one of them ! Though I never
could have been so rude, no, no. I wouldn’t for the wealth
of all the world have crushed that braided hair, and torn it
down ; and for the precious little shoe, I wouldn’t have plucked
it off, God bless my soul! to save my life. As to measuring
her waist in sport, as they did, bold young brood, I couldn't
have done it; l should have expected my arm to have grown
round it for a punishment, and never come straight again.


And yet, I should have dearly liki d, I own, to have touched
her lips ; to have questioned her, that she might have opened
them ; to have looked upon the lashes of her down cast eyes,
and never raised a blush ; to have let loose waves of hair, an
inch ot which would be a keepsake beyond price : in short, I
should have liked, I do confess, to have had the lightest license
of a child, and yet been man enough to know its value.
But now a knocking at the door was heard, and such a rush
immediately ensued, that she with laughing face and plundered
dress was born towards it the centre of a flushed and boisterous
gioup, just in time to greet the father, who came home attended
J)y a man laden with Christmas toys and presents. Then the
shouting and the struggling, and the onslaught that was made
on the defenceless porter! The scaling him, with chairs for
ladders, to dive into his pockets, despoil him of brown-paper
parcels, hold on tight by his cravat, hug him round the neck,
pommel his back, and kick his legs in irrepressible affection !
The shouts of wonder and delight with which the develope-
ment of every package was received ! The terrible announce-
ment that the baby had been taken in the act of putting a doll’s
Irying-pan into his mouth, and was more than suspected of
having swallowed a fictitious turkey, glued on a wooden
platter! The immense relief of finding this a false alarm !
The joy, and gratitude, and estacy ! They are all indescribable
alike. It is enough that by degrees the children and their
emotions got out ot the parlour and by one stair at a time, up
to the top of the house ; where they went to bed, and so
subsided.
And now Scrooge looked on more attentively than ever,
when the master of the house, having his daughter leaning
fondly on him, sat down with her and her mother at his own
fireside ; and when he thought that 'such another creature,
quite as graceful and as full of promise, might have called him
father, and been a spring-time in the haggard winter of his
life, his sight grew very dim indeed.
‘‘ Belle,” said the husband, turning to his wife with a smile,
“ I saw an old friend of yours this afternoon.”
“ Who was it ?”
“ Gues§ !”
“ How can I ? Tut, don’t I know,” she added in the same
breath, laughingas he laughed. “ Mr. Scrooge.”
“ Mr. Scrooge it was. I passed his office window ; and as it
was not shut up, and he had a candle inside, I could scarcely
help seeing him. His partner lies upon the point of death, I
hear, and there he sat alone. Quite alone in the world, Ido
believe.”
“Spirit!” said Scrooge in a broken voice, “remove me
from this place,
“ I told you these were shadows of the things that have
been,” said the Ghost. “ That they are what they are, do not
blame me !”
“ Remove me !” Scrooge exclaimed, “ I cannot bear it !”
He turned upon the Ghost, and seeing that it looked upon
him with a face, in which in some strange way there were
fragments of all the faces it had shown him, wrestled with it.
“ Leave me ! Take me back. Haunt me no longer !”
In the struggle, if that can be called a struggle in which the
Ghost with no visible resi: ance on its own part was undis-
turbed by any efforts of its adversary, Scrooge observed that
its light was burning high and bright ; and dimly connecting
that with its influence over him, he seized the extinguisher-
cap, and by a sudden action pressed it down upon its head.
The Spirit dropped beneath it, so that the extinguisher
covered its whole form ; but though Scrooge pressed it down
with all his force, he could not hide the light: which streamed
from under it, in an unbroken flood upon the ground.
He was conscious of being exhausted, and overcome by an
irresistible drowsiness; and, further, of being in his own bed-
toora. He gave the cap a parting squeeze, in which his hand
relaxed; and had barely time to reel to bed, before he sank
into a heavy sleep.
Varieties.
Coin stable’s Miscellany. — Policeman O’Hoo, when
lately discovered in au entire state of beer, was found to have
on his person : 1 Temperance medal; 1 complete songster;
12 tresses of hair; 4 receipts from his uncle; 8 Billet-doiu
from the cook at No. 9. round the corner; an elegant twisted
device resembling a baton, in rhubarb leaves ; 1 thimble ; 1
lucifer box ; 3 area keys ; 1 dark lantern ; 1 piece of chalk ;
1 paper of snuff ; 4 split peas ; and an onion.— Punch.
Absence of Mind. —The chief instance of this most worthy
clergyman’s absence was that which occurred on his wedding
day—or rather that which was to have been his wedding day.
He had parted with his Dulcinea at eleven o’clock at night,
the marriage was to take place at eleven in the following
morning. Our reverend friend rose ; forgetting this part of
his daily engagements, and finding it a beautiful morning for
fishing, in which sport he delighted and excelled, he betoolv
himself to the stream, and began his diversion, at which he
remained occupied until it grew late and he grew hungry. In
the meantime, the dejetiner a la fourehette was prepared,
the guests were assembled, the blushing bride covered with ali
the whiteness that satin, muslin, and orange flowers could
impart, was waiting. Messages were sent to his house: nobody
knew anything of him. The canonical hours w r ere past, and
when, at half-past six, he returned with frve brace and a half
of roach and dace out of the Waveny, delighting in his success,
and was met by the reproaches and fury of an angry father
and revengeful brother, from whose resentment nothing but
his cloth preserved him, with unfeigned sincerity he begged
pardon for his forgetfulness, offered them three of the dace,
and proposed to be married the next day The dace were
indignantly refused, and the lady declared that no power on
earth would induce her to marry him. He sat down to the
rejected fish by himself, and said to his servant, “ Dear me,
what a pity it was you did not remind me about my marriage !”
He died single.
The Deaths of Great Men. —How deeply interesting
it is to contemplate the death-bed scene of those whose fame
will be imperishable so long as genius is admired, or science,
art, and literature cultivated! It is said that Haller, the
great physiologist, died feeling his pulse. When he found
that he was almost gone, he turned to his brother physician
and said, “My friend, the artery ceases to beat,” and died.
Petrarch was found dead in his library, leaning on a book.
Bede died in the act of dictating. Roscommon uttered at the
moment he expired two lines of his own version of “ Dies irse.”
Rousseau, when dying, ordered his attendants to place him before
his window, that he might once more behold his garden, and bid
adieu to nature. Addison’s dying speech to his son-in-law was
characteristic of the author of the “ Spectator .” “Behold,”
said he to the dissolute young nobleman, “with what tran-
quility a Christian can die.” Alfieri, the day before he died,
was persuaded to see a priest; and when he came, he said to
him with great affability, “ Have the goodness to look in to-
morrow ; 1 trust death will wait four-and-twenty hours.”—
Tasso’s dying request to Cardinal Cynthis was indicative of the
gloom which haunted him through life ; he had but one favour,
he said, to request of him, which was, that hewould collect his
works, and commit them to the flames, especially his, “Jeru-
salem Delivered.” Clarendon’s pen dropped from his hand
when he was seized with palsy, which terminated his life.
Chaucer died ballad-making. His last production he entitled,
“ A Ballad made by Geoffrey Chaucer on his death-bed, lying
in great anguish.” Sir Godfrey Kneller’s vanity was displayed
in his last moments. Pope, who visited him two day before he
died, says he never saw a scene of so much vanity in his life;
Kneller was sitting up in bed, contemplating the plans he was
making for Iris own monument. “ I could wish this tragic
scene was over,” said the celebrated actor Quin ; “ but I hope
to go through if with becoming dignity.” Bishop Newton
died whilst in the act of setting his watch. Bayle, having pre-
pared his proof sheet for the printer, pointed to where it lay
when in the act of dying. The last words of Lord Chester field
were, when the valet, opening the curtains of the bed, an-
nounced Mr. Drysdale, “Give Drysdale a chair.” Warren
observed that Chesterfield’s good breeding only quitted him
with his life. “ Tell Collingwood to bring the fleet to an
anchor,” were Nelson’s last words. “ I fear not death !
Death is not terrible to me,” said Charles the First, whpn he
ascended the scaffold. Sir Thomas More, on observing the
weakness of the scaffold on which he was about to die, said to
the executioner, “I pray you see me up safe! and, for my
coming down, let me shift for myself.”— Polytechnic Journal.
Difficulties of an Editor. —An Editor cannot step with-
out treading on somebody’s toes. If he express his opinion
fearlessly .and frankly, he is arrogant and presumptuous. If
he state facts without comments, he dares not avow his senti-
ments. If he conscientiously refuse to advocate the claims of
an individual to office, he is accused ef personal hostility. A
jackanapes who measures off his words into verse as a clerk
does tape, by the yard, hands him a parcel of stuff that jingles
like a handful of rusty nails and a gimlet; and if the Editor be
not fool- enough to print the nonsense,-—“ Stop my paper ; I
won’t patronise a man that’s no better judge of poetry &c.”


The Moralist.
HOPE AND FEAR.
The promises of hope are sweeter than roses in the hud, and
far more flattering to expectation ; but the threatenings of fear
are a terror to the heart.
Nevertheless, let not hope allure, nor fear deter thee from
doing that which is right ; so shalt thou be prepared to meet
all events with an equal mind.
The terrors even of death are no terrors to the good ; lie that
coramitteth no evil hath nothing to fear.
In all thy undertakings let a reasonable assurance animate
thy endeavours; if thou despairest of success, thou shalt not
succeed.
Terrify not thy soul with vain fears, neither let thy heart
sink within thee from the phantoms of imagination.
From fear proceedetli misfortune ; but he that hopetb,
helpeth himself.
As the ostrich, when pursued, hideth his head, but forgetteth
his body ; so the fears of a coward expose him to danger.
If thou believest a thing impossible, thy despondency shall
make it so ; but he that persevereth, shall overcome diffi-
culties.
A vain hope flattereth the heart of a fool; but he that is
wise pursueth it not.
In all thy desires let reason go a’ong with thee, and fix not
thy hopes beyond the bounds of probability; so shall success
attend thy undertakings, thy heart shall not be vexed with
disappointment.
MORAL MAXIMS.
ALPHABETIC ALLY ARRANGED.
No. 9.
A little neglect may breed great mischief.
A little pot is soon hot.
A little time m'ay be enough to hatch a great deal of'mis-
chief.
A little wit will serve a fortunate man,
A living dog is better than a dead lion.
All are not saints who go to church.
All are not thieves that dogs bark at.
All complain of want of memory ; but none, of want of
judgment.
All is but lip-wisdom, that wants experience.
All is soon ready in an orderly house.
All men think their enemies ill men.
All that is said in the parlour, should not be heard in the
hall.
Friendship is one of the fairest productions of the human
soil i the corcnal of life, the lenitive of our sorrows, and the
mujtiplyer of our joys; the source equally of animation and
repose. He who is destitute of this blessing, amidst the
greatest crowd and pressure of society, is doomed to solitude •
and, however surrounded by flatterers and admirers, however
ai med with power, and rich in the endowments of nature and
of fortune, has no resting place. The most elevated station in
vhirwl dS no . e: [ em PfY ,n h-om those agitations and disquietudes
Roblt Hall y '° reS ‘ ° n ,he bosom ° f « «end.-
,l.^l HE r E ar t Souls in tbis world - encrusted with an outward
r,oin,in/o°f U^ n T OT deformi 'y- keen, so sensitive, that the
The, * f . tbe ,®?6 er »» torture, the look of scorn, madness,
ihey sweat with inward agonies at the- moment when pride
and timidity so closely veil their feelings, that, while their
hearts are bursting, they exhibit, to the careless eve, nothing
lnSeDS,Wlty insufferable pride.— The ' Dutchman *
,ho.?f VEESA r TI T'T I - f ;, ° u baTe two '“pies to talk to a man
about, one of which interests him the most, while the other
lh e mos S , y 0 h t wdi n,05 , , -, begi - n Wi * h ‘ hat Which interests him
seas m „?:!-i!„ri PUt hlm m 3 g °° d h “ moUr ; “ wi »
As WE look back into the dark vista of the past which
grows more and more indistinct the further down we’retrace
its long-draw" pathways, the white grave-stones of our friends
an l relatives, (as they successively start up in perspective
to e, ° r how7' eW ’> ale *®f nark? of Eternity, indicating ”
journey 7s ovtv m rt' h ’ advanced ’ a "'-l how much of our
ADrJamr “'’known and unseen world of spirits,-
Select poetry.
ON CONSTANCY.
When kindred hearts together join,
And like the oak and ivy twine,
How blest the happy pair !
But should the oak receive a wound,
Is not the tendril ivy found
To feel an equal share ?
Such hearts as these with union feelings glow ;
And turning tremble at or joy or woe.
THE SIMILE.
The oak is man in firmness drest
With strength of fondness in his breast,
Delighting in the tie !
The ivy is the gentle wife,
That clings around his happy life,
With deathless constancy :
In life, she does her folding joys impart,
hi death she withers round the sapless heart.
Memoriter.
TO DR. BOWRING.
[On his Poetical Translations from various languages.]
Bowring, the music of thy polished strains
Through every tongue its equal power sustains.
To the rude Russ it gives a softer touch,
It melts to mellower sounds the homely Dutch ;
With bloodless conquest from each land it hears
The precious spoil of long recorded years ;
And, pleased its holy ardour to diffuse,
With thy own spirit, sanctifies the Muse.
Thus in some window’s deep recesses laid,
The soft iTo'ian harp its power displayed'
from the shrill east wind and the stormy north
It drew soft airs and gentle breathings forth ;
Subdued to harmony each passing sound,
Waked with unusual notes the echoes round,
With happy magic softened, as it past,
The hollow whistling of the keenest blast •
And each rude gust that swept the changing skv
Dissolved to strains of liquid harmony. '
MRS. BARBAULD.
THE WIND.
The wind has a language, I wish I could learn !
Sometimes ’tis soothing, and sometimes ’tis stern,
—Sometimes it comes like a low sweet song,
And all things grow calm, as the sound floats along,
And the forest is lulled by the dreamy strain,
And slumber sinks down on the wandering main,
And its crystal arms are folded in rest,
And the tall ship sleeps on its heaving breast.
Sometimes when autumn grows yellow and sere,
And the sad clouds weep for the dying year,
It comes like a wizard and musters its spell',
I would that the magical tones I might tell
And it beckons the leaves with its viewless hand,
And they leap from the branches at its command;
And follow its footsteps with wheeling feet,
Like fairies that dance in the moonlight sweet.
Sometimes it comes in the wintry night,
And I hear the flap of its pinions of might;
And I see the flash of its withering eye,
As it looks from the thunder- cloud sailing on hiah •
And pauses to gather its fearful breath,
And lifts up its voice like the angel of death
And the billows leap up when the summons they hear
And the ship flies away as if winged with fear; ’
And the uncouth creatures that dwell in the deep
Start up at the sound from their floating sleep, *
And career through the water, like clouds thro’the nijrht
To share in the tumult their joy and delight-
And when the moon rises the ship is no more,
Its joys and its sorrows are vanished and o’er*
And the fierce storm that slew it has faded away,
Llke the dark dream that flies from the light of the day.
The Intprovatrice.


JzOttCe.
The Editor does not hold himself responsible for the opinions am}
assertions contained in the correspondence and contributions in-
serted in the Colonial Literary Journal.
settce to Correspondents.
Frederick” is informed that his Essay will be inserted shortly,
and that we shall be glad to hear from him on future occasions.
All communications must be addressed to “ The Editor of the
Colonial Literary Journal, General Printing Office, 133,
King-street East)' (post paid.)
i&otice to Country Subscribers.
Subscribers in the Country are requested to forward their names
and subscriptions to the nearest Agents, where no Agent has,
as yet, been appointed in their immediate neighbourhood; as
the expense of postage of a letter to the Publishers in Sydney,
is a considerable encroachment upon the very slender amount
of a Quarterly Subscription.
Subscribers are informed that as back Nos. cannot go through
the Post, they must inform us by what means the earlier Nos.
are to be forwarded to them without expense to the Publishers.
In answer to complaints of non-delivery of Papers, we can only
say that the Nos. have been regularly inserted in the Post
Office to their respective directions.
NUMEROUS METHODS OF PRODUCING HEAT.
It has been observed that a latent heat is to be found
in every substance in nature, and that heat in passing
from one body to another is abstracted from the first;
nevertheless, the sun does not lose any heat by radi-
ation. The sun radiates to the earth, the earth absorbs
heat, and in its turn radiates to the objects near it.
If the earth had not parted with its heat to the sur-
rounding vapours, from whence it‘ is dissipated to
the distant regions above us, w r e should long ere this
have been burnt to ashes, or melted in solution. It
has also been said that heat only emits flame at a
given temperature; and some surprise may be expe-
rienced by those who have not considered the subject,
to be informed that the same temperature is in reality
produced by the striking together of flint and steel,
as is found in a lighted fire or candle, but the sparks
or light thus emitted are so minutely small, that
they are generally expended before they reach any
object. The production of heat by friction is known
among the savage races of men, who light their fires
by rubbing two pieces of wood together. Friction is
a mechanical action. The rubbing together of all
roughened substances will produce heat, more espe-
cially if one of them be a metal. You may see a
very simple instance of this in the grindstone of the
man who traverses the streets to sharpen knives, where
at every turn of the wheel sparks of fire are made
visible by the friction of the stone against the knife.
Again, the spark which is emitted by a horse’s shoe
while he is trotting on the roads, is caused by the
shoe having become heated with his rapid motion,
while his rubbing on the stones at once breaks off an
atom of the shoe, and sets fire to it. Carriage drivers
always find it necessary to put some oily material on
those parts of the wheel which continually rub on
the axle-tree, to prevent the constant friction from
producing too much heat; and should this be neglected,
the axle-tree would be destroyed by burning. The
celebrated Sir Humphrey Davy contrived a very
curious experiment to shew the power of friction.
He caused two pieces of ice to be put into a vessel
from which the air had been exhausted, and so
arranged as to be rubbed together by a machine, when
sufficient heat was produced to melt them.
Another method of producing heat is by chemical
combination. Mineral acids, as tlrey have a great
proportion of latent heat, will, when simply brought
into contact w r ith some substances, produce flame. If
a small quantity of pure magnesia is put into a cup,
with a sufficient portion of sulphuric acid poured on
just to cover it, combustion will take place, and sparks
will be thrown out in all directions. Again, if a
small quantity of sulphuric acid is put into a cup,
and half its quantity of cold water is poured over it,
and the mixture stirred with a piece of wood, it will
be found hotter than boiling water. Sulphuric acid
is itself of a nature to burn anything on which it
shall be deposited, and some acids have the power o # f
dissolving metals.
Chemical combination is a boundless operation; it
is an unseen power in nature which causes- substances
to unite with each other, by which union some things
are made more compact, others more expanded by
the entrance of new matter. Natural decomposition
is a process caused by the unseen entrance of one gas,
and the giving forth of another. Chemical combi-
nation is equally present when a substance is formed
by the union of other substances, or when a substance
is unformed, unmingled, decomposed. It is an un-
seen, secret, and natural operation. Although heat
will reduce every substance in nature to its original
elements, yet there is nothing in nature that is ever
completely destroyed or lost.
We use the word “ temperature” wffien speaking of
the degree of heat in natural objects; it signifies the
constitution of anything, and is always used to de-
note the state of bodies with respect to heat: any body
or substance which excites or contains a more intense
sensation of heat than another is said to possess, or
to be of a higher temperature. By a change of tem-
perature, a solid is rendered fluid, and a still greater
increase converts it into vapour, or as it is termed ail
Elastic fluid. The giving out vapour is called
Evaporation, but there is a difference between steam
and evaporation. Steam is formed throughout the
whole mass of a boiling liquid. Evaporation takes
place only at the surface of bodies, and that at the
ordinary temperature of the atmosphere. A strong
wind assists in evaporation by carrying off the vapour
as it rises, and thereby making way for a succeeding
portion.
Thus we see that the effects and results of the
power of Heat, are so numerous, so various, and so
magnificent, that we may truly say it is a fearful and
marvellous engine of Divine agency. Without a
certain degree of heat, our vital actions must cease ;
without heat, vegetation could not prosper ; without
heat, all vapours, liquids, and even gases, would
become solid ; and all things on the earth would
remain motionless.
Thus, by the will of God, effect and cause
Walk hand in hand according to His laws;
Rise at volition’s call, in groups combined
Amuse, delight, instruct, and serve mankind.
It may be convenient in concluding the subject of
heat to explain the principle of action, and the con-
struction of the Thermometer or measurer of heat. A
glass tube is fixed to a frame whereon is marked the


numbers from I—to —212 commencing at the low r er
part. Below the figure 1, is also another point
marked thus, 0, it is called Zero and signifies nothing.
The glass tube is made exceedingly strong to enable
it to stand the heat to which it is sometimes subjected,
and has a round bulb at the low r er extremity. The
air within the tube is first rarified by heat and then
it is nearly filled with Mercury or Quicksilver.
When the mercury is placed in the tube, it is again
heated, which causes the mercury to expand, and
force out the remaining air in the tube. At the
instant of the mercury rising to the top of the tube it
is closely, or as we say heremtically sealed. When
the air is thus removed, the mercury will expand if
heated, and contract if cooled ; we therefore see it rise
when heated, and we see it again fall when it is
colder, and according to the number to which it rises
or falls, do we ascertain the heat of the surrounding
atmosphere, or any substance w r hich we place near to
it. Mercury is used for this purpose because it is
very easily acted upon, and because its changes are
very easily discerned. Alcohol or spirit of wine is
sometimes used. The first persons who contrived a
machine for measuring heat were Florentines. Boyle
introduced it in England, and he used alcohol. The
Thermometer in present use was arranged by a Dutch
philosopher named Fahrenheit, andi it is now in
universal use in Britain, and is much esteemed.
B.
PHRENOLOGY.
[For the Colonial Literary Journal.]
No. VI.
The North American Indian presents many peculia-
rities of character, which render his craniological
developement of some interest to the Phrenologist.
All are acquainted with the savage customs followed
towards prisoners of war. All that the most savage
and barbarous ingenuity could suggest, and the most
blood-thirsty spirit take delight in, w r as employed in
tormenting their unhappy victims, to endeavour, if it
were possible, to wring from them some symptom
of suffering, the least expression of bodily pain, to
show that harassed nature was Sinking under the
agonizing torture. And it was the glory, the pride,
the triumph of the heroic victim to baffle the expec-
tations of his savage tormentors by the most unflinch-
ing fortitude, to smile in the face of his destroyers
whilst they blew up his quivering flesh with gunpow-
powder ; to taunt them with their want of ferocious
ingenuity, whilst the burning iron hissed in his boiling
blood ; to recount his former deeds of like cruelty
upon their tribe, and to exult in his own heroism and
their frustrated hopes, w r ith the light of life burning
dimly, and more dim in his soul, ahd the last drops
of the living stream slowly ebbing from his collapsing
heart. Such instances, though improbable, have
actually occurred, and serve to show to what an
extent fortitude, in even a bad cause, may be carried :
alas ! w 7 hy not oftener in a good? According with
this manifestation of character, their organs of Firm-
ness and Secretiveness are developed in a most
remarkable manner ; and the lofty appearance of the
head of tae North American Indians, at its zenith,
must be remembered by all who have seen living
specimens of the race, or draw ings representing their
contour of head. Their Destructiveness is also de-
veloped in a most eminent degree ; and Benevolence,
though not always, is generally rather deficient. The
most prominent of their intellectual faculties is Com :
parison ; Ideality also is full, and.their orators are no
mean masters of the flowery qualities of eloquence,
more particularly the figures of Allegory and Meta-
phor, in fact whatever demands the aid of Comparison.
I had the pleasure of reading a speech delivered by
an intelligent chief of a tribe belonging to that nation,
and the sentences perfectly sparkled with the most
brilliant metaphors and similes.
When the Spaniards discovered America, they
found that portion of the West Indian Isles which lies
in the Carribean sea', inhabited by a race of men
called Charibs, one of the most ferocious and blood-
thirsty nations that ever existed. In their sanguinary and
destructive propensities, they only out-did the Spani-
ards themselves ; and so brutish and untameable were
their dispositions, that a war of extermination was
the only method that could be adopted by their inva-
ders, for ridding themselves of so implacable and for-
midable a foe. For the information and assistance of
science, several skulls of this remarkable race have
been preserved, though the race itself is believed to be
extinct. A nearer approach to the brute creation in
the form of the head, cannot well be imagined, than is
found in the Charib skull. Reflection seems to have
been totally wanting, and all the passions doubly
amplified. The forehead recedes immediately from
the eyes, and the posterior portion of the head looks al
though it had usurped the whole of the brain, so enor-
mously is it developed.
Contrasting in some respects with the last men-
tioned, is the nation of the Hindoos. Though not
gifted with great intellect, they are in general of a
mild and pacific disposition, more given to the enjoy-
ment of the domestic affections, than to the practice of
war. Accordingly we find the anterior portion of
the Hindoo skull developed but poorly, Comparison
being the largest organ situated in that part of the
head ; and the metaphorical character of the Hindoo
writings is w r ell known ; Destructiveness and Comba-
tiveness in general very moderate, and the organs of
Amativeness, Philoprogenitiveness, and Adhesiveness,
full. Secretiveness, and Acquisitiveness are very
large, and Conscientiousness small ; the conse-
quence of which combination is a thieving dis-
position, with very loose ideas as to the significance
of the w r ords meum and tuum; and the Hindoos are
rather notorious for this propensity. They gratify
their love of plundering at every possible opportunity ;
but owing to their excessive Cautiousness, they seldom
carry it on on a large scale ; pilfering the meanest and
and most trifling articles is their forte, and these they
hoard up till they become considerable. The develope-
ment of the different castes among the Hindoos varies,
however, sometimes considerably. The Brahmins
present a cerebral developement superior to that just
mentioned ; and they are known to be possessed of
much more intelligence than the rest of their nation.
The observations just made evidently refer only to the
Hindoo Nations with whom the British are more inti-
mately acquainted; the character of some of the
tribes inhabiting Hindoostan differing materially
from theirs, many of them being as famed for their
warlike spirit as the others are distinguished for their
pusillanimity.
Æ ENEAS.


VIRGIL ON THE VINE.
[For the Colonial Literary JoiTrnal.]
No. 11.
“ Turn we
To vigorous soils, and climes of fair extent,
Where, by the potent sun elated high,
The vineyard swells refulgent to the day.”
Thomson.
Our poet thus begins his directions :
First seek "whether a hill or a plain may best suit
your purpose; should you select rich soil plant
thickly, for the vine is fruitful in rich soil though
closely planted ; but if ground rising into hillocks or
gently declining be chosen, -widen your ranks, nicely
equalling the intervening spaces and planting the
trees in trenches, duly squaring with those already
formed, just as when in dreadful battle the long
legion sets its cohorts in array, and the "whole multi-
tude stand in the open plain, and the line formed,
while the earth far and wide glistens with the sheen
of armour ; nor as yet have they mingled in dire
battle ; but doubtful Mars travels from rank to rank
(in mediis armis.'f
In like manner, the spaces intervening between the
trees are exactly portioned out, not only that an
agreeable prospect may greet the mind at leisure, but
also because the soil does not otherwise yield an
equal amount of nourishment, nor otherwise can the
branches extend themselves into the open air. Here
probably you may enquire vrhat should be the depth
of trenches ? I reply—l would venture to place the
vine in a shallow furrow, but the trees should be
planted somewhat deeper, especially the oak which
extends its summit to the heavens and strikes its root
even to the depths of gloomy “ Tartarus conse-
quently endures the violence of winters, the strength
of the tempests, and the softening rains, and stands
unmoved through many years outliving successive
generations, while it extends its sturdy arms (itself in
the midst) and affords a mighty shade.
Moreover, never plant your vine opposite the setting
sun, nor put hazel between your vines, nor pluck the
highest tops from the trees, or the lowest roots, for
they have contracted a love for the earth ; nor wound
your roots with the blunt iron, nor implant the w r oody
olive, for frequently fire drops from careless shepherds,
which first conceals itself under the unctuous bark,
then reaches the trunk and gliding to the loftiest foli-
age, shoots into the air in roaring flames. Thence,
victorious flying o’er the lofty tops involve the grove
in flame : from thence a dense volume of pitchy
smoke rushes in a u darkling” cloud, more particulaly
should a tempest from the north incline the trees and
the increasing wind roll the fire forward.
When this happens, the vine will neither grow from
the root nor recover hy pruning, and, as it were, re-
suscitate itself from the bosom of the earth, and only
a barren wild olive, with bitter leaves, survives. Lest
some wiseacre should persuade you to move the rigid
earth 11 rude Boreas” blowing, then winter congeals
the soil, nor permits the bound-up roots to strike.
I advise you rather, the best season for planting is
when ruddy spring and when the white bird hostile to
the extended smoke appears, or during the first chill of
autumn when then the rapid sun in his chariot has
not as yet approached to winter, but his glowing heat
relaxes. Spring is chiefly useful to the foliage of
groves and trees ; the earth relaxes in the spring, and
demands the fruitful seed. Then the air ( poetically )
Father Omnipotent, descends in fertile showers, and
mighty himself, commingling with her great body,
nourishes every seedling. Then the sprays resound
with the cheerful carols of feathered songsters—and
j the earth abounds in fruitfulness ; the country relaxes
; its bosom to the genial breeze, and a gentle moisture
j pervades through every plant, which now ventures
| forth to the renewing sun. Nor does the vine any
| longer dread the southern winds, nor the heavy rains
poured down from heaven by the boisterous north,
I but pushes forth its buds and all its leaves unfolds.
I should imagine no other climate shone at the crea-
tion of the rising world, o: other arrangements existed
at that period. It was surely spring then, and spring
prevailed over the face of the earth, and the east winds
restrained their wintry breath when first the cattle
inhaled life, and the iron race of man upraised their
heads from the rocky plains, and beasts were placed
in the woods, and stars in the heaven.
Moreover the tender productions of the earth could
not otherwise endure this labour, unless some interval
existed between the heat of summer and the cold of
w r inter, and unless some variation of season were
extended to the earth.
As to what remains, wherever you place layers
throughout your lands, sprinkle rich manure, and
prudent cover it well with mould, or around it bury
porous stones or rough shells, between which the rain
will glide, and a genial moisture will enter, instilling
strength into the plants—literally, the plants will
raise their courage or minds ; —(animos tollent sata."
Some are even found w r ho press it with the weight of
a superincumbent stone or of a broken jar, which is
a protection during immoderate rains, and also when
glowing Sirius opens the gaping earth. The layers
being set, it remains frequently to heap the earth
about their roots, and to loosen it with a pronged fork,
or to exercise it with the impressed share, and to lead
the struggling bullocks amidst the vines themselves ;
and now join to the vines the polished reeds and rods
of picked twigs and ashen stakes, with two pronged
props, for depending on the strength of these they
mock the winds and follow the branches of the loftiest
elms.
Further, spare the tender vine, while in infancy it
increases in youthful foliage, and whilst the joyful
shoot extends itself towards the broad expanse of
heaven, and shoots forth with relaxed reins into mid
air, the edge of the pruning knife itself must not yet
be tried, but rather crop the leaves with the inbent
fingers, and let them be here and there removed, when
afterwards they increase in strength, embracing the
elms with firm stem ; then curb the tendrils, then
prune the branches—hitherto they dreaded the steel,
but now exercise an unflinching authority, and re-
strain the superfluous branches.
A fence should also he erected, and all the cattle
kept out, especially while the leaf is delicate and un-
accustomed to hardships, which the wild uri (buffalo)
and wandering goats injure, besides the stormy win-
ters and glowing sun. Moreover, the sheep and
greedy heifers feed on them. Nor do the .winters
congealed with white frost, or the summer’s heat pene-
trating even solid rocks hurt them so much ; to such
an extent do the flocks hurt them by the poison of
their teeth and the scar impressed on the corroded
stem. For no other fault is the goat offered up on


every altar to Bacchus, and ancient plays were intro-
duced on the stage ; and the Athenians placed prizes
of goats in the villages and highways, and, joyous in
their cups, danced over unctuous goat-skins in the
flowery meadows.
Also the Latins (sprung from Troy) sport in un-
published verse, and with immoderate laughter ; and
they invoke thee, O Bacchus, in jolly metre ; and in
honour of thee suspend little images from the lofty
pine. Hence every vine becomes ruddy with abun-
dant fruit; hence the hollow valleys and the shady
groves abound with the grape, wherever the image of
Bacchus turns its fruitful countenance: therefore in
duty bound we will sing praise to Bacchus in paternal
verse, and offer to him dishes and honeyed cakes, also
a sacred goat, led by the horns, shall be placed on
the altar, and the rich entrails shall be roasted on
hazel rods.
There is yet another labour in the culture of the
vine on which too much care can never be bestowed,
viz., the soil must be turned up three or four times
yearly, and the clods assiduously broken with inverted
drags, and the ■ whole vineyard disburthened of
leaves.
Labour revolves to the husbandman in a continu-
ous circle, and each year returns into itself through
i J °
the same seasons.
And now when the vine drops her late leaves, and
the cold north wind shakes the foliage from the woods,
the prudent farmer anticipating the coming year,
closely follows with* Saturn’s curved implement the
shorn vine, and forms it by pruning. In conclusion,
be the first to trench the soil, to burn the weeds
borne homewards, and be the first to house the stakes
for the ensuing season, but the last to reap the
vintage.
Twice during the year dense leaves clothe the
vine, and twice thick prickly weeds choke the crop,
each of them involving considerable fatigue in
clearing.
Prudently praise large farms, but cultivate small
ones. Besides all this, rough twigs and reeds
from the bank have to be procured, and care ex-
ercised over the uncultivated willows. And now,
though labour ceases, as it were, the vines being
bound, and admitting of rest to the pruning hook, and
the exhausted vinedresser having saluted his last row
with a song, yet the earth has to be turned afresh and
broken up ; nevertheless, all this toil may perhaps be
fruitless, for inclement weather is to be dfeaded by
the ripening grape.”
Here the poet’s instructions on this point conclude,
and on the whole they contain some useful hints to
the agriculturist ; and his judicious advice about
praising large farms and cultivating small ones, will
be always found a prudent one by the practical
farmer.
I cannot better conclude this subject than by giviug
a few general and brief hints on the management of
the vine, which I have collected from attentive obser*
vation and a little experience in the management of
the vine, during my sojourn in this colony, but to
give them here would swell the present commu-
nication beyond due bounds; it had, therefore, with
ermission, better be deferred for some ensuing
number.
T. L. D.
ORIGINAL CORRESPONDENCE.
To the Editor of the Colonial Observer .
Sir, —As I live in the country and do not see the
Colonial Observer, I have trusted to the report of a
friend, who informs me that “ Honestas” has therein
thought proper to impugn an article written by me
for the Literary Journal, as evidencing a want of
originality. I beg leave to intimate to the Honora-
ble Literatus, that my compositions are the gleanings
from wise men who have written on scientific subjects,
in a scientific style and manner. My object has been
to bring down the interesting and useful science of
Chemical Philosophy to the capacities of youth, and
to those persons who have not at all considered
the subject; firmly believing that the deficiency of
knowledge concerning cause and effect has kept back
not only a source of high gratification to individuals,
but some universal benefits to the colony, which could
only arise from an acquaintance with the several laws
of nature. Any thing extensively original is scarcely
to be expected. When we teach a child to read, we
do not make new characters, we present to him the
well established Alpha, Beta. I do, however, deny
all plagiarism, while I candidly confess that I have
extracted matter from Brande, Daniells, Turner, and
Arnott, but not a syllable from the work mentioned
by “ Honestas.” I write not for fame or profit, but
from a philanthropic feeling for a colony where I
have but newly arrived, and because I am convinced
tKat the happiness of every individual, whether he be
a child or an adult, is increased by every addition to
his stock of knowledge of the earth’s production and
its uses, and that improvement so extensive, that its
limits are unknown, is within the reach of those who
seek it with energy.
BLANDILOQUUS.
THE ART OF PAINTING.
To the Editor of the Colonial Literary Journal.
Sir, —I desire to call your attention to a matter that
is viewed with some degree of surprise and no little
regret, by every well-wisher to our rapidly increas-
ing community. I allude to the low estimation,
amounting to almost total neglect, in which imitative
art is generally held. To Music, vocal and instru-
mental, much attention has been and continues to be
given. A taste, a fondness for it, spreads rapidly
through all ranks. It is patronised by the highest au-
thority, and diligently sought and fostered in nearly
every family of independent means throughout our
city and its environs. Its Professors are generally
well employed, and well paid, and deservedly so.
How is it then that Pictures are so little valued—excite
so little interest 1 This may perhaps arise from the want
of talent among its Professors ; yet I have understood
that men of no slight degree of information, both as
landscape and portrait painters, have been long resi-
dent in the colony. Some few of their works I have
seen in both departments, that were not merely credi-
table and clever, but possessed of much real excellence.
It may be that their authors do not give instruction—
would not like to devote their time to teaching: this
is to be regretted, as but little advancement can be
expected in native art, unless a love for it be acquired
by our youth. By teaching to draw, Ido not mean
merely placing a few unmeaning or uninteresting


lines before the unfortunate student, with a desire
that she or he will proceed to perpetrate an assemblage
of equally fascinating marks in a nice new book—
which being subsequently -sharpened by the touch of
the intelligent master, are transferred to make glad
the heart of a fond parent—the splendid product of
only o/?eQuarter’s instruction, at the very small cost of
v. few shillings, with not more than two or three times
the amount for books, pencils, &c., condescendingly
supplied by the master aforesaid. I wish my child to
attain by degrees a knowledge of, and a love for,
what is beautiful both in nature and art —to acquire
the power to use his eyes —in truth to learn to see; to
take pleasure in the contemplation of the various
effects produced by different hours of the day, and
seasons of the year—the transitions consequent upon
atmospheric changes—the alterations induced by dif-
ference of distance—the endless combinations of form
and varieties of tint visible in our trees and plants—
and all these as exhibited.in a climate of surpassing
beauty. If this can be done, many years will not
elapse ere a race of amateurs will have arisen, w’hose
patronage and support will lay the foundation for a
school of art as unique in its kind as extensively
beautiful ; as lasting a monument of our country’s
powers and talents as hath been heretofore afforded
by the great men of the far-off old wmrld. If, Mr.
Editor, it be in your power, by occasional allusion in
your far more able manner to this subject, to forward
and facilitate improvement in, and love for, the art of
painting, you will much oblige one who desires to see
the land in which we live second to none, in all that
may contribute to the mental progression, the refine-
ment and rational enjoyments of its inhabitants. I
am, Sir, most respectfully yours,
Z.
[We regret to inform our correspondent that more than one
Professional Artist, whose superior abilities are known and
acknowledged, are willing to devote part of their time to the
instruction of the Colonial youth; but whose talents do not
receive the support they justly merit.
Could not our correspondent favour us with a few continu-
ing remarks on a subject with which he seems to have made
himself well acquainted ?— Ed. C. L. J.]
DISTRICT COUNCILS.
To the Editor of the Colonial Literary Journal.
Sir, — I have lived long enough in the world to learn,
that masses of men are not to be moved by appeals to
judgment; and how to touch a more tender faculty,
where all seems to be apathy or stolidity, is a difficult
question. The grovelling selfishness of the colonists
—their short-sightedness as to any thing which con-
cerns them as parts of a whole—are notorious ; but
still, their present indifference respecting the attempt
by the Colonial Legislature to strangle the District
Councils ; their carelessness as to the immediate
effects, and the consequences to the next generation,
of this measure, cannot be accounted for. These
humble municipalities are the privileges of the people
—they are the people’s Councils; in opposition—in
wise opposition, I should say—to the Council of the
aristocracy.
I am not a Whig, I hate the name, because it is a
cloke for political deception ; and because every man,
certainly every honest man, desires to be the other
thing. Some disciples of Lucifer or his Principal,
who would rather rule in Hell than serve in Heaven,
persuade the unthinking portion of society, that
patriotism is their motive, or the love of liberty; but
crafty combination and gainful subserviency always
mark the conduct of the Whig. lam not a Whig--,
but as one of the people, I am sure that we cannot be
respectable in the eyes of nations, nor prosperous as a
community, without popular assemblies—without
assemblies in which the humblest individual among
us, may have that consideration which his natural
rights and the British Constitution claim for him.
It is said that the people are against these Councils :
this cannot be. Every rank of colonial society feels,
and declares its inability to endure additional taxa-
tion ; but this intolerable proposition is not an essen-
tial part of the Law, which erects these Corporations ;
or at least the unpalatable adjunct of assessments,
might have been made less unpalatable—might indeed
have been made quite tolerable by the Legislative
Council.
It is not very difficult to understand the proceedings
of that body in the matter in question. They want
no controling power. The facilities afforded to the
people by these District Councils, to speak and act for
themselves, was likely to prove inconvenient; but
these facilities, these privileges, were considered
necessary to good government; and it is questionable
whether the Supreme Legislature can work efficiently
without them.
If the Governor do not now propose a constitution
for these minor Councils—if he do not immediately
do something to remedy the mischief done, the Colonists
may lose a boon, one of the greatest the Parent
Government ever bestowed upon a colony. There
were misconceptions on the part of those who framed
these laws, but every one of these might have been
remodelled so as to prevent the evils our Senators
have been saying so much about; or if two or three
which are very offensive, could not have been modified
in themselves, other enactments of these Laws could
have been made to correct the obnoxious ones. But
that would not have served the ends in view, and our
prosperity and respectability as a nation are' to be
trifled with, because of the fear of taxation on the
real property of Members of Council ; or, because of
other reasons, to be noticed hereafter. Yours, &c.,
I. J. T.
The Chief Justice. —ln consequence of his con-
tinued ill health, Sir James Dowling has obtained
leave of absence for two years. His Honor will leave
for England in about two months ; previous to which
it is intended to invite him to a public dinner. An
address signed by 64 attorneys and solicitors, has
been presented to the worthy Judge, who returned a
fit reply.^
<Sir Thomas Mitchell. —Sir Thomas Mitchell has
resigned his seat in the Legislative Council, as
member for Port Phillip, in consequence, it is said,
of some difference with the Governor.
The New Judge.' —A private letter, dated Ist
May, says that the new Judge having taken to him-
self a wife, had postponed his departure until the Ist
of June, instead of sailing by the May packet as he
had originally intended.
Port Phillip Election. —Mr. B. Boyd has inti-
mated to the electors of Port Phillip his readiness to
be put in nomination for the seat in Council, vacant
by the resignation of Sir T. Mitchell, in the event of
their finding any difficulty in securing a candidate
pledged to the support of the pastoral interests.


Original Poetry.
EXTRACT FROM “SCENES IN MANEROO,” N.S.W.
TAKEN FROM THE SPOT : BY A SHEPHERD.
[An unpublished Work.]
’Tis in the spring that a spirit is giv’n
Which fills each heart with pure feelings of bliss;
When Earth’s pouting lips, fresh with dews from Heaven,
Disarm the cold tyrant with sunny kiss.
Bright is that spirit, the spirit of Love!
Which hallows each feeling with power from above.
’Tis then with joy, when Nature fresh unfolds
Her vivid mantle of Earth's fairest green,
The wand’ring Shepherd with glad eye beholds
The varied beauties of each magic scene—•
The golden leaves—the forest’s deeper dye,
And azure skies blending in harmony.
Him, as he onward strays with cautious feet,
The wattle greets —blooming amid the hills—
Whose golden clustering flowers, with perfume sweet,
Mild zephyr’s breath inhaling, fresh distils—
And hickory dark, with creamy flowers o’erhead
So mildly delicate, their odours shed.
Pausing, he lists, as ever and anon,
From ’mid the hills ring notes of wildness sweet
Of vocal choristers —who from among
The sheltered boughs, in happy dalliance meet
To tend with watchful love their unfledged brood,
Deep in the covert of the solitude.
No peasant girl, with smiling sunburnt face,
In the cool morn here greets his wandering eye,
Whose mantling blush, with look of artless grace,
Wins the attention warm in passing by.
No golden corn, nor vineyards—man’s chief care—
Nature alone reigns wild, yet freshly fair.
No ruined fortalice, nor feudal tower,
Nor time-worn battlement, nor shattered walls
Recall the spirits of the past with power—
Peopling with plumed knights the silent halls —
Nor wild romaunt of knight of Palestine
Sung in the greenwood bower at Beauty’s shrine.
And seldom here the Forest Chief is seen
With cloak of’possum skins and barbed spear,
In Nature’s pleasing, tho’ untutored mien,
And dark eye glancing round in stealthy fear:
He, ’mid the wooded hills yet unexplored,
Still roams in freedom, undisputed lord.
Reposing listless oft on summer’s day
Beneath the shadow of umbrageous tree,
In pure delight he wiles the hours away,
Deeming the hours full short that swiftly flee;
Filled with emotions—which Earth’s scenes impart,
Of rapture thrilling in his grateful heart.
With wondering eye he views man’s dwelling place,
Adorned with trees, and flowers, and fruits profuse,
Of varied form, and distinct hue and grace,
Formed in God’s endless bounty for the use
Of sinful man, on whom with parent’s love
He daily showers his blessings from above.
And oft he seeks the green banks near the brook,
Where waters murmur o’er their rocky bed,
To bask in idlesse, in sequestered nook—
His couch a giant tree, disrobed and dead—
Where drooping leaves oft snatch a pearly kiss
From wave’s smooth cheek, which brights with blush of bliss,
At eventide —when the sun’s dying ray
Lights the ethereal vault with aureate stream,
And glittering clouds of brightness fade away
Like the May-morn of boyhood’s sunny dream—
With swimming eyes he homeward bends his way,
Deeming life but such journey of a day.
The morning sun that brightly beams on high,
Is like to hope—when hearts are young and gay—
Which, tho’ dark clouds with tears dedew morn’s sky,
Still wears a smile at close of parting day;
Till night—death’s shroud—in sorrow’s silent gloom,
Quenches that light—as hope dies in the tomb.
And when mild night awakes, and sleeps the day
Amid the bills, in solitude alone
He cheers the night—forgetfully away
In song to one—now love and youth had gone—
Whom lie did deem, witb bright eyes ever shining,
Sincerer far than eafthly lips beguiling!
[from a correspondent.]
The following apology for not fighting a Duel, was sent many
years ago by Captain Scott; and is submitted for the con-
sideration of the Legislative Council of New South Wales*
“ What! you’re afraid then ¥*
“ Yes, I am : you’re right;
I am afraid to sin, but not to fight.
My country claims my sword, but no law
Bids me in folly’s cause my sword to draw.
I fear not man, nor devil; but, though odd r
I’m not ashamed to own I fear my God!”
We have received a copy of the Mayor’s “ Letter to
W. C. Wentworth, Esq., M.C., on the subject of
Municipal Revenues, as prayed for by the Corporation
of the City of Sydney.” The writer of this letter
here draws the attention of our senior City Member
to two petitions presented by him to the Legislative
Council, the subject of which must now receive the
consideration of the Legislature in consequence of the
expiry of the Corporation Act on the 2nd ult. In it
he strenuously supports the claims made by the City
Corporation to certain of revenue which he
argues should rightfully belong to that body, namely,
the Publicans’ License Fees and the Police Court
Fees, Fines, and Forfeitures ; as forming the prayer
of one of the petitions alluded to. The writer strength-
ens his position by quoting several precedents in his
favour from similar Corporate bodies in England and
Ireland. It is pleasing to observe, as in this instance,
the head of an institution coming forward as a zealous
advocate for the rights, claims and privileges of the
body over which he may preside. We hope that the
writer’s remonstrances may prove successful. The
writer notifies his intention to devote another letter to
the consideration of the prayer of the second petition
of the Corporation—“ As to the Control and Adminis-
tration of the City Police.”
Cardinal Spada, who died at Rome a short time
ago, has left a sum equaling 54,000 francs to the
Brotherhood of Charity to which he belonged, to be
employed in defending the poor, and particularly the
working men, when brought before the tribunals.
The French Academy. — Since its foundation, the
French Academy has reckoned3/3 members, amongst
whom there were 1 prince of the blood, 13 cardinals,
4 archbishops, 6 marshals of France, 20 ministers of
state, 15 preceptors of princes, and a multitude of other
dignitaries. Of these 373, 30 were distinguished
men, such as Corneille, Racine, La Fontaine, Bossuet,
Boileau, Fenelon, Voltaire, Montesquieu, Labruyere,
Bufton, d’Alembert, Cuvier, Casimer Delavigne. The
others were authors of the second order. Descartes,
Pascal, Rotron, Moilere, Larochefoucault, Menage,
St. Real, Bayle, Regnard, Bourdaloue, Chaulieu, J.
J. Rousseau. J. B. Rousseau, did not belong to the
academy, neither did Piron.


COMMERCIAL REVIEW.
The Markets generally are still characterized by diiiness and
inactivity, and commercial transactions of the past week have
been but limited.
The recent arrivals have, however, caused some symptoms
of renewed activity in the Import Markets, and prices maintain
fheir firmness. Ihe importation of Cape Wine ex “ -\lbert”
lias been disposed of; a small parcel of raisins,by same vessel,
realized Bd. per pound.
J he sugar Market is very firm, a large parcel of Mauritius
has changed hands at £2O 10s. per ton, and the Zebu Sugar
ex Alfred, submitted for sale by public auction, this day
was withdrawn at a high figure ; also the Coffee at 4*d.—a
superior sample of Cigars realized 90s. per 1000. Holders of
manufactured goods are firm for advanced prices,"this may be
trace ! to the moderate amount of recent consignments from
England, and the improbability of the present stock in hand,
being increased to any extent for some time to come
In the Export Markets, the most favourable evidences of
sustained activity are apparent.
I he prices of ( olonial produce continue without any great
deviation from former quotations.
B. S. LLOYD,
Commission Agent, Bridge-Street.
August 21st, 1844.
Shipping Entdltgcncr.
ARRIVALS.
August 16.—The barque Maria Somes, 785 tons, Captain
Baker, from Hobart Town the 11th instant, with Government
stores.
August 19.—The barque Eweretta, 356 tons, Captain Darley,
from the Downs 14th and Portsmouth 24th April, with ’a
general cargo.
August 19 —The brig Emma, 121 tons, Captain Fox, from
Adelaide the sth instant, with flourj &c.
August 19.—The brig Tryphena, 131 tons, Captain Hind-
marsh, from Auckland, the 18th July, with manganese, &c.
DEPARTURES.
August 15.—The barque Royal Saxon, Captain Charlsvvorth,
For Calcutta, with troops and stores.
August 15.—The barque Briton, Captain Hall, for Calcutta,
with troops and stores.
August 15.—The barque Enmore, Captain Ellis, for Calcutta,
with troops and stores.
August 15. The barque Lloyds, Captain Lewis, for Calcutta,
with troops and stores.
August 16.—The schooner Ariel, Captain Preston, for Wel-
lington, with sundries.
August 18.—The brig Lady Gray, Captain Hawkes, for
Batavia, in ballast. -
August 18.—The barque Hindoo, Captain Beard, for Liver-
pool, with colonial produce.
August 19.—The brig John Dalton, Captain Denton, for
London, with colonial produce.
TStrtfjS.
On the 15th instant, at Woolston Cottage, Millers Point,
Mrs. Alexander Campbell, of a daughter.
On the 2nd instant at Manus, near Yass, the lady of Sydney
G. Watson, Esq., o£a daughter.
On the 19th instant, at her residence, Woolloomooloo, Mrs.
Kellie, of a son,
On the 15th instant, at Gloucester-street, Mrs. Frederick
Hunt, of a daughter.
On the 16th instant, at her residence, Kent-street South
Mrs, William Deane, of a son.
JFtarriages.
On the 15th instant, at St. James’ by the Rev. R. Allwood,
Mr. William Blair, of the Bank of Australasia, to liarriette
Anne, third daughter of the late J. Storey, Esq.
On the 15th instant at Newcastle, by special license, by the
Rev. Mr. Stewart, Mr. William Graham, to Eliza, second
daughter of Mr, John M’Call, watchmaker, Sydney.
Ueatfjs.
On the 18th instant, at his residence, Macquarie-street, Mr.
Thomas Burdekin, aged 43 years.
On the 6th March, at her residence, Heath Lodge, Mary,
relict of Daniel Tierny, Esq., Bagenalstown, county Carlow,
Ireland, and mother of D. J. Tierny, Esq., M.D. of this city.
Colonial fUterarg Journal,
and
Weekly Miscellany of Useful information.
T HE TERMS! of SUBSCRIPTION to this Journal
1. are, Three Shillings per Quarter, in Town ; Country
Three Shillings and Sixpence; payable, in every case
in advance. ’
Terms for Advertisements For one inch, and under
Three Shillings; and One Shilling for every additional inch
each insertion. Advertisements will be received until Two
o’clock on Wednesday afternoon; ,but cannot be withdrawn
later than Nine o’clock on Wednesday morning. Adver
tisements must specify on the face of them the number of
times they are to be inserted, or they will be continued till
countermanded, and charged accordingly.
Parties signifying their intention of becoming Subscribers
to the Colonial Literary Journal , are informed that the first
numbers may be still obtained on application to their respec-
tive Agents, and at the Office.
NOTICE,
FF GEORGE GRAHAM does not call and pay me the
J_ amount due for board and lodgings, the property left in
my charge will be sold to defray expenses*
ELLEN WARD.
Rent-street, August 20th 1844.
■B. C3IiLX,I,i3Sr€£E,
TO ENGLAND, IRELAND, SCOTLAND, AND ALL THE WORLD
BESIDE.
WALKER’S PATENT GROATS.
T'HIS ARTICLE, if tested, will be found to contain more
JL nutriment, than any similar article of the kind. E.
Walker is prepared to prove that two thirds of the quantity of
the above, if made in a proper manner, will be equal in nourish-
ment, and ot a thicker substance, than the usual quantity
generally recommended by others in the directions for use.
Another desirable property belonging fo Walker’s Patent
Groats is, as regards the great safety for export—not liable to
that change which the English manufacture is, by turning
sour on the voyage, avoided by the patent mode of preparation,
and greatly aided by the spontaneous growth of the grain
grown in this Country; while free from the artificial culture
which causes so much moisture in the farina of the English
l grain, and scarcely ever eradicated or sufficiently prepared.
Enough already is before the public to satisfy them that
Walker’s Farinaceous Food, (for Children and for Persons with
impared digestion,) ought not to be despised, and which for
the future will be packed in Tin Canisters, in order to preserve
its most agreeable flavour. With the usual white label-
sealed and signed Edward Walker—that only being genuine.
Wholesale orders to any extent will be immediately at-
tended to; any export order exceeding ten gross of either
article, terms, half Cash, and the remainder when the goods
are resold.
Manufactory, Old Botany Road.
MSD&IS.
JUST RECEIVED, ex Hindoo, a large assortment oj
Repeal, Temperance, Confirmation, Nelson, and Tunnel
Medals, with Cathedral and others of a very beautiful descrip•
tion, adapted for presents.
The attention of Temperance Societies is especially invited
to five hundred beautiful Temperance Medals, which will be
sold cheap.
Specimens may be seen at Mr. Reading’s Printing Office,
133, King-street East.
Agents for tliis Journal.
Sydney, Mr. W. Jones, Circulating Library, Brickfield-hill,
Parramatta Mr. Hugh Taylor,
Windsor Mr. Walker.'
Bathurst Mr. Tress.
West Maitland Mr. Galloway,
Camden, Campbelltown, Penrith, and
Liverpool Mr. C. Lester.
Gunning Mr. Hawthorne.
