

COLONIAL
LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
“ NON TUA TE MOVEANT, SED PUBLICA VOTA.”
Vol. I. No. 26.]
SYDNEY, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 19, 1844.
[Price 4d.
A TOO-SEVERE ECONOMY;
UNNECESSARY AND INJURIOUS IN ITS- RESULTS.
Excessive devotion to any sub-luna'ry objec,t4s to be
avoided, as incompatible with the end and purpose of
our being. One pursuit in which the above may be
exemplified, is the endeavour after wealth, where it is
allowed to degenerate into avarice and parsimony—too
often the result of a misguided and sordid economy.
Whatever may be the virtue of saving, however valu-
able may be the admonitions to husband our pecuniary
resources, it will be evident, on reflection, that we
may commit a most egregious error by adhering too
scrupulously to a fixed plan of general or universal
economy. In entering upon the scene of life with a
prudential forethought, it equally behoves us to be-
ware of falling into discreditable habits of meanness
and avarice, as of waste and profligacy. Money is
not the great good, not that which we should livb
alone for. Human life has, indeed, far more noble
and interesting objects presented for attainment. The
fact, that money is but a means, and often a very im-
perfect means, to an end, should never be forgotten ;
and, if this fact were but universally acted upon, what
a profitable and pleasing change would take place in
the condition, mental and physical, of society. What
signifies the acquisition of opulence, if, in the mean-
while, we have allowed all the comforts and rational
enjoyments of existence to pass away untasted ? What
comparison can be instituted between the possession
of mere wealth, and the delights enjoyed in the con-
templation of a useful and well-spent life ? What
compensation can there be found for the agreeable
solace of the family circle and the social assembly ?
Can the realization of any stated sum of money afford
this solace ? Life, alas, is to many but a bitter drop,
and, unless modified by something superior to the
possession of gross lucre alone—by solacements and
hopes in which the virtuous and reflecting may safely
indulge would not constitute the boon which it may
and should become even to the most wretched.
At present, the almost universal persuasion of
civilized man,” it is remarked by Combe, in his Con-
stitution of Man, “ is, that happiness consists in the
possession of wealth, power, and external splendour;
objects related to the animal faculties and intellect
much more than to the moral sentiments. In con-
sequence, each individual sets out in the pursuit of
these as the chief business of life ; and in the ardour
of the chase, he recognises no limitations to the means
he may employ, except those imposed by the muni-
cipal law. He does not perceive or acknowledge the
existence of natural laws, determining not only the
sources of his happiness, but the steps by which it
may be attained.” Money is, truly, considered by not
a few to be the “ great good”—the ultimate object of
possession; not the means, but the end : and it is
undeniable that there are many persons v/hose whole
life presents but a series of anxious struggles to save
a penny. But these are, generally speaking, a short-
sighted race, and often prove entirely wrong in their
calculations. In order to follow out their plans of
saving, and rather than risk the smallest sum in any-
thing like adventure or speculation, they will fre-
quently pass by a decided advantage. They do not
comprehend that what may seem to their present
advantage, may eventually prove a serious loss. They
do not perceive the judiciousness rather of adopting
such measures as shall secure a saving in the long
run, and hence they are continually casting away
excellent prospects of well-doing, rather than swerve
from the rigid regulations laid down for their own
governance. Doubtless, these infatuated beings, who
are by this course of action, b 6 it remembered, re-
jecting most of the comforts and conveniences of life,
may really attain to the opulence they aimed at, after
incalculable plodding and privation ; but could they
not have realized their washes much more easily, and
perhaps more honourably, by the exercise of a sounder
judgment and a nobler spirit? They have doubtless
obtained the share they sought for of the good things
of this life, but what mind have they left to enjoy it ?
where are the fresh feelings of former days ? ’ They
have long since lost all relish for the bounteous gifts
showered upon mankind for their benefit and enjoy-
ment ; the companions of their youth have vanished
from their society ; friendship is to them an empty
sound ; they are surrounded by plenty, but those they
call to partake of it are strangers; and their death is
anxiously desired by distant relatives, w r ho long to
apportion among themselves the wealth accumulated
by a life of toil and privation.
If the fate of the successful and penurious saver, as
sketched above, be recognised as anything like reality r ,
how shall we describe the condition of him who has
through a long life of misdirected efforts, struggled
hard to accumulate, yet in the end finds his endeavours
fruitless and himself poor? Instances of this class
will be familiar to most of our readers. Despised for
their meanness shewn in every action, loathed for
their generally repulsive habits, devoid of a particle
of generous sentiment, or even desire of refinement,
every effort directed on the principle of saving a little


money, they have passed a life of incessant bodily
toil, while a little mental exertion would have served
to advance them at a far greater ratio. They earn
perhaps a character for industry, when, in reality,
they deserve blame for not rather exerting their
reasoning faculties. respect from others,
the infatuatedTreatures that they are minding
the main chance, and perhaps in their folly look with
contempt and pity on the more liberal behaviour of
those around them. Every excess, however, brings
its punishment, and the individuals we have described
are seldom exempted from a full share of sorrow and
misfortune. The result of all their pitiful shifts is,
that they end poor as they began. They see others
rise to fame and fortune by honourable exertions,
perhaps by directing the efforts of a cultivated under-
standing upon their daily occupation; but they still
remain on the same low level, devoid of the spirit to
rise, soured in temper, or broken down with vexation.
Such is the fate of these deluded mortals, these won-
derfully clever contrivers, broken down in their old
age, and bitterly reaping the harvest of disappoint-
ment and vexation, so plentifully sown by their own
hands in youth and manhood. Such is frequently the
result of an over-wrought spirit of economy.
THE BREWER.
Bhewing is the art of making porter, beer, or ale. This art
is undoubtedly a branch of chemistry, and depends on fixed
and invariable principles. Those principles are now beginning
to be better understood than they formerly were: and although
no complete and unerring theory has yet been obtained,
sufficient is now known to enable us to give directions for
brewing with ease, certainty, and promptitude, and in the
small space to which we are necessarily limited, we hope that
we shall exhibit a compendium at once useful and correct.
Brewing is an art of the remotest antiquity ; in no country
has it been carried to * a greater perfection than in England.
The inventor of it is not known, but the use of beer was
common with the most ancient nations. History informs us
that this liquor passed from Egypt into all the other nations
of the world, and that it was first known under the name of
Pelusian drink, from the name of Pelusium, a city near the
mouth of the Nile, where they made the best beer.. From the
time of Strabo this drink was common in the provinces of the
north, in Flanders, and in England- It was used even by the
Greeks, according to the relation of Aristotle and Theophrastus,
although they had excellent wines; and from the time of
Polybius the Spaniards also made use of it.
Beer is a vinous liquor, which is made from the sugar
obtained by infusion from many sorts of farinaceous grain, but
barley is most commonly preferred. It is, however, quite
evident that any vegetable matter which contains sugar, or
from which sugar by any process can be made or developed, is
proper for the production of such liquor. The flavour depend-
ing of course in every instance, upon the aroma, the extractive
matter of the vegetable, and a portion of essential oil, either
in the vegetable itself or the matters added to the liquor
during the process of making it, or afterwards; the hop, for
instance, is one of those additions: the flavour which hops
give to malt liquors is too well known to be described.
Different counties of England are celebrated for their
peculiar ales, and London porter is famous in almost all parts
of the civilized world. Different as these several sorts of
liquor are, they are nevertheless, for the most part composed
of the same materials variously prepared.
Malt liquor, in general, is composed of water, malt, hops,
and a little yeast; and the great art is to find out the proper
proportions of each ingredient, to what degree of heat the
water must be raised before it is poured on the malt, and how
best to work it afterwards.
There are two kinds of malt, distinguished by the colour;
these are called brown and pale malt, and they depend upon
the degree of heat that is used in drying. The malt which is
dried by a very gentle heat differs in its colour but little from
the barley, but if exposed to a higher temperature, it acquires
a deeper hue, till at length it becomes of a dark brown.
When the malt is made, it must be coarsely ground in a
mill: it is then fit for the brewer in whose hands the process
of making beer is completed.
The first part of the operation is called mashing , which is
performed in a large circular vessel.
This vessel has a false bottom, pierced with small holes,
fixed about six or eight inches above the real bottom. There
are two side-openings in the interval between the bottoms;
by the one water is conveyed into the vessel, and by the other
it is drawn off. When the malt is put on the false bottom of
the mash-tun, the water being at a proper heat, is admitted, by
means of the side pipe, from the copper, and first fills tha
space between the false and real bottom ; then forcing its way-
through the small holes in the false bottom, it soaks the malt,
and when all the water is let in, the process of mashing begins.
The object of this part of the operation is to effect a perfect
mixture of the malt with the water, so that the sweet part of
the grain may be extracted by the fluid : for this purpose the
mass is kept constantly stirred by means of iron rakes, or long
wooden poles.
In large breweries the process of mashing cannot be performed
by human labour; it is therefore effected by machinery that U
kept movingby means of the steam-engine. As soon as the mash-
ing is completed, the tun is covered in to prevent the escaps
of heat, and in this state it is suffered to remain till all the
sweetness of the malt is extracted; then the spigot is with-
drawn, and the clear wort allowed to run off into a lower or
boiling copper. The heat of the water used in mashing should
be about 180 degrees of Fahrenheit’s thermometer. Before
the goodness of the malt is exhausted it is usual to pour upon
it two or three waters, but the wort which is drawn off the
first is much the strongest. The proportion of malt to tho
water depends on the strength of the liquor wanted. It is said
that good small beer may be brewed at the rate of thirty-
gallons to a bushel of malt, and excellent ale may be made in
the proportion of one bushel of malt to five or six gallons of
water; indeed, if this proportion be used, strong beer ought to
be the result of the operation, as will be seen when we describe
private brewing below.
The wort, when run into the lower copper, is to be boiled
with a certain quantity of hops; the stronger the wort, the more
hops are required ; the common proportion in private families
is a pound of hops to a bushel of malt, for weaker liquors ; but
the stronger do not require hops in the same proportion.
When the hops are mixed with the wort in the copper, the
liquor is made to boil; and it must be kept boiling as fast as
possible, till, upon taking out a little of the liquor, it is found
to be full of small flakes, something like curdled soap.
The boiling copper is, in small concerns, uncovered, but in
large breweries it is fitted with a steam-tight cover, from the
centre of which passes a cylindrical pipe, that terminates into
several branches in the upper or mashing-copper; thus the
steam produced by boiling, instead of being wasted, is let into
cold water of the upper copper, by which it is made almost
hot enough for mashing without any additional expense of
fuel; the steam carries also with it the flavour of the hops;
which, when the operation is carried on differently, is lost in
the air. . ..
When the liquor is sufficiently boiled, it is drawn out into c
number of shallow tubs called coolers, in which it remains til,
it is cool enough to be submitted to fermentation. Liquor
made from pale malt, and intended for immediate use, need
not be cooler than 75-° or 80 ° , and can of course be made in
almost every part of the summer; but that which is for keeping
should not be hotter than 65 ° or 70 ° , when it is put together
for fermentation. „ , . . . .
From the coolers the liquor is transferred into the ferment-
ing or working-tun, in which it is well mixed with yeast, m
the proportion of one gallon of yeast to four barrels of beer
This part of the process takes from eighteen to forty-eight
hours, according to the state of the weather.
The last part of the operation is that of transferring the
liquor from the working-tun to the barrels, where the fermenta-
tion is completed. For a few days there will be a copious
discharge of yeast from the bung-hole ch the
barrels must from time to time be carefully filled up with fresh
liquor. After this discharge is finished, the barrekar! b 8
up, and the beer is fit for use in the course of or two
if the proportion of malt to the water be small, but *stronger


*!,« liquor the longer time it takes to become fit for being
drunk, 1 Strong beer made with a proportion of six gallons of
water to one bushel of malt, and in the quantity of sixty gallons,
will usually take, in the temperature of England, one year to
become an agreeable liquor. In general the larger the quantity
of liquor in one vessel, the longer time it takes to become
mature: and it is of material importance that all vessels con-
taining malt liquor, when bunged down, after its having
finished the active fermentation, should be full.
Common report says, that in addition to malt and hops a
variety of other ingredients are used, and none of them ot the
most wholesome nature.
So much for the brewing of malt liquor on a large scale.
We shall now give our readers a method very generally pursued
by families for brewing their own ale, which practice is getting
general from a conviction of the very great unwholesomeness
of ale, &c. from some of the public breweries.
In brewing, the first thing necessary is to take care that the
eask, into which the liquor is to be put, is sweet and whole-
some. The casks in most common request in London, are
barrels containing thirty-six gallons. To make such a cask of
good malt liquor the following proportions may be taken:
malt three bushels, hops two pounds; having measured the
quantity of water which your cask will hold, by a pail or
bucket, you must put that quantity into your furnace and
make it boil; as soon as it boils, dip off half of it into a tub
or vat raised upon a bench, about a foot and a half from the
ground, and which has a hole in its side near the bottom, into
which is introduced a spigot and faucet, and over the end ot
which, in the vat, is fixed a bundle of small clean sticks, or
other convenient apparatus, to prevent the malt from running
out; let the water remain quiet in the vat till it lias cooled to
about the temperature of 175 ° or 180 ° of Fahrenheit’s ther-
mometer ; or, in the absence of this instrument, till your face can
he seen pretty distinctly in the water ; —then mix the malt with
the water, gradually stirring it with a mashing stick which is
•usually made for the purpose, and too well known to he
described. Reserve a few handsfull of the dry malt to strew
over the surface after it is mixed, in order to prevent the
escape of the heat: and cover the vat besides with cloths, more
effectually to keep the mixture hot: let it remain for three
hours—then let the liquid run out by the 6pigot and faucet;
and, as soon as it has done so, pour on the same quantity of
water, cooled in a tub to the same degree of heat as before,
and let it remain half an hour, or somewhat longer; let the
liquor run off a second time; and as you will now be enabled
to"judge how much more fluid will be necessary to fill your
cask, add as much more water, cooled as before, as will be
sufficient for your purpose, letting the last portion stand a
short time in the vat; always remembering that it is most
advisable to have, for a barrel of thirty-six gallons, at least
ten or fifteen gallons of wort more than sufficient to fill your
cask, to allow for waste and evaporation ; and keeping in mind
also, that the more water is used, the more effectually will the
sugar be washed out of the malt, and of course the stronger
must your liquor become. When your liquors are all run off
mix them together, and put them into the furnace, making it
to boil as soon as possible. It will he quite necessary that
you should know how many gallons your furnace will contain,
in order to judge of the evaporation ; for the overplus of quan-
tity must be reduced by boiling to the quantity of gallons
which you want. When your wort is reduced, by boiling, to
nearly the measure which you intend it to be and not before,
put in your two pounds of hops, and let them boil in the wort
a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes, and it would he most
advisable, during the time of their boiling, that the furnace
should be covered down.—Remove the fire from the furnace
and strain off your wort into proper coolers ; and when it is
sufficiently cool, as before mentioned, mix one quart of good
yeast with a few gallons of the wort first, and afterwards put
the whole together into a vat to remain to ferment for a few
days; or put it at once into your cask and let it ferment there :
which last method is the most effectual to preserve all the
strength of the liquor.
This ale will be fit for drinking in about two or at most
three months, depending of course upon the season of the year
in which it is made; but [in England] October is a proverbial
month for brewing, and from the equability of its temperature,
it is undoubtedly the best.—The months of March and April
are the next best. If, instead of three bushels of malt, six be
added to the same quantity of water, and four pounds of hops,
an excellent strong beer will be the result: ten gallons of good
small beer might be afterwards made from the not wholly
exhausted inalh
AFFECTATION.
Article II. —Affected Wealth.
Among the various modes in which affectation is de-
veloped, perhaps the one most frequently met with, is
the assumption of appearances above actual station
the affectation of wealth, power, or possessions which
are not really possessed. We would not be under-
stood as breathing a word of discouragement, to any
one desirous of bettering his circumstances, either in
regard to mental attainments, worldly possessions, or
temporal power; such ambition is highly laudable,
when indulged with prudence, and followed out with
perseverance; and the high estimation in which such
aspiring dispositions are generally held, is shewn by
the sway which they acquire. The affectation to which
we refer does not consist in aiming to obtain these
qualities, or this power, but in assuming without pos-
sessing, or perhaps without ever seeking to possess
them. This affectation arises from the known power
of wealth and high station; a power so mighty in its
influence, that, were it not for that kind and protecting
hand which “ tempers the wind to the shorn lamb,
the majority of mankind would be crushed hnd trod
down by that part of the aristocrats of earth, who are
destitute of the mercy which is from above. The
desire for power and possession is almost universal.
It is true there are some who sing with sentimental
modesty —
“ I pant not for riches, I thirst not for powe'.,
I seek not to dwell in wealth’s glittering bower.
There are also some degraded beings who seem to
take pleasure in the mud and defilement of their base
positions ; but even this contented obscurity and gro-
velling preference, are not through a genuine dislike
for power and possessions, but, in the latter, from the
most disgraceful idleness, and, in the former, from a
conviction that even the mighty influence of wealth
and high station would not be a sufficient recompense
for the disappointments and difficulties to be encoun-
tered in the way to their attainment. Wealth and
power, considered abstractedly, are so desirable, that
were the path to preferment unattended with diffi-
culties, all would journey that way; but
* “He who by the plough would thrive,
Himself must either hold or drive.”
How then must the idler, the lazy, earth-loving, gro-
velling idler attain it ? lie cannot. And thus it is
that idleness generally creates the affectation which is
the subject of the present remarks. The desirable-
ness of wealth, power, or high station, is so generally
acknowledged in the heart, if not by the lip, that
persons who are too idle, too weak-minded, or too
worthless to become these characteis, if at any time
they wish to appear such, have recourse to affectation,
and thus try to steal the laurels they could never win.
And thus we are able properly to appreciate the cha-
racter of that person who tries to elevate himself by
the affectation of a higher station than what he really
holds, since such affectation generally is to be traced
either to slothful disposition, indecision of character,
or mental imbecility; and so far from having any
good effect on their characters, it not only discovers
unpardonable mental weakness, but actually makes
them appear lower in circumstances than they really
are. They were desirous of appearing to the world
something higher and better than in truth they were,
so they assumed the desired character, and then gave


the world the telescope of appearances, through which
to view them; but alas for their philosophy ! they
present the wrong lens, and instead of magnifying, it
minifies, and the affected person, little minded and
worthless enough before, now becomes “ less than
nothing.” It is surprising to what trouble and per-
sonal inconvenience some persons will put themselves,
in order to appear as belonging to a higher class, as
if the flimsy gauze of affectation could hide ignominy
and poverty. Such behaviour is the surest hindrance
to improvement of position, for the expenses lavished
in trying to pass for rich, if frugally spared, would
have assisted to make them really so. Many are the
instances in which this silly weakness has in this
manner undermined the respectability, destroyed the
credit, spoiled the reputation, and eventually gazetted
and beggared the affected spendthrift. It is not un-
usual, in this part of the world especially, to see
persons, who, poor in reality, are decked out in the
richest profusion of dress, lolling in a carriage, which
they ostentatiously call their phaeton, but which is
frequently only a hired cab, driving about, perhaps
hurrying to and fro to their country residence, which
they have styled by some such romantic name as
“ Primrose Villa,” and where “ the young ladies” are
taught by their “ kind governess” to pinch their waists
into taper beauty, and pull their fingers into genteel
length, and by the addition of pomade, rouge, &e.,
render their countenances bewitching, while their
dancing-master gives them a lesson in the languishing
department—in short, where they are brought up per-
fectly ala mode: meanwhile the young gents may be
seen promenading the city, or domain, with a cigar
stuck between their lips, and a gilt chain dangling
round their necks, with a ci-divant timepiece attached,
perfectly useless, because it cannot go, for “ the young
gentleman” says it is “ out of order,” but he must
send it to his watchmaker to get it repaired. Mean-
while, in order to support this affected wealth, their
actual property is involved, their bills are due, they
are getting every moment deeper in the mire ; cash is
demanded by creditors, who are told to “ call at my
office in the morning, and I will give you a cheque
for the amount;” but neither cheque nor money are
forthcoming, and presently, if you ivant to know what
o’clock it is with them, you must enquire at the
Insolvent Court, and if you wish to balance your
account with them, you can do it by the Rule of
Three, stating the question thus : as one shilling and
sixpence is to one pound, so is the amount I shall
receive to the amount which they owed me.
This affectation is not confined to these wholesale
swindlers, but may be seen working in lower classes,
though in rather a different style. One day, having
a little leisure, I determined to pay a visit, which I
had long promised, to an old fellow-voyager. On
entering my shipmate’s house, I found he was not
then at home, but was shortly expected; so I sat
down awhile to await his return, amid a thousand
apologies from his wife for their dwelling being so
humble, assuring me it was*quite different from what
she had been accustomed to, with some obscure re-
ferences to the “ ups and downs of human life ;” nor
did she forget to introduce something in the conver-
sation about squire such a one, her uncle, and the
boarding-school at which she had received hidu-
cation,” but with pestering pertinacity continued her
tale of the “ iligance” and plenty in which she had
been brought up, while she busied her hands in pre-
paring tea for her husband on his return, at which
she very ceremoniously begged me to favour them
with my company. I was beginning to feel a curious
tingling sensation in my ears at this deafening din of
“ hasbeens,” when, to my great satisfaction, die lady
begged me to “ hixcuse” her for a short time, and
issued into the ante-chamber communicating with the
back door. The partition between the two apartments
being rather frail, I could easily hear what passed in
that vicinity, and heard the lady telling her daughter
to run into Mrs. their neighbour, and “ present
her ginteel compliments,” hoping she would be kind
enough “ to lind her the loan” of her silver teaspoons,
as a friend was going to take tea with them : the
desired loan was soon obtained, and Mrs. Hasbeen
returned to set the tea-table, bringing with her the
silver teaspoons, and a very showy tablecloth, which
on observation I discovered was only a tablecloth
pro. tem., and in reality the good woman’s shawl, for
it was creased corner ways, and moreover had a pin
stuck in a particular part, which evidently had been
been frequently used to fasten it on. Upon this tasty
cloth she spread out the teaware, which consisted of
odd cups and saucers, snipt, cracked, and unhandled,
the appearance of which was not a bit bettered by the
borrowed silver spoons, or the domesticated shawl.
This affectation of respectability was continued in
almost every circumstance ; even the quarter pound
of lump sugar which she sent out for on credit, was
put into a basin previously half full of moist sugar, in
order to make it appear a basinfull, as if persons of
even the most ordinary share of penetration could not
have seen through such weakness and petty pride.
They were poor, but this was no disgrace ; the mis-
fortune was that they were ashamed of their station,
and so the foolish woman tried to hide their poverty
from their visiter, by a ridiculous association of broken
crockery and silver teaspoons.
With the same intention, we find persons of the
lowest station dressed out in the most showy, and at
the same time whimsical apparel, coarse, vulgar, and
misinformed menials trimmed in white dresses, or
muslin mantles, “ like a toad wrapped in writing-
paper.” Jobbing mechanics, and shirtless, senseless,
penny less shopmen, with a gold ring on the little
finger, like “ a jewel in a swine’s snout,” all of which,
instead of raising themselves, only expose them to the
contempt of the thinking public, and sink lower than
the dust the weak victim of affectation.
FREDERICK.
History.
ANCIENT HISTORY: SECTION XXIV.
THE HISTORY OF ROME CONTINUED.
14. Servius Tullius (the son of a female captive,)
who had married the daughter of Tarquinius, secured
by his own address, and the intrigues of his mother-
in-law, his election to the vacant throne. He courted
popularity by acts of munificence; discharging the
debts of the poor, dividing among the citizens his
patrimonial lands, improving the city with useful
edifices, and extending its boundaries. The new
arrangement which he introduced in the division of
the Roman citizens into classes and centuries, is a
proof of much political ability, and merits attention, as
on it depended many of the revolutions of the republic.


-15. From the time that the Romans had admitted
the Albans and Sabines to the rights of citizens, the
Urban and Rustic tribes were composed of three
distinct nations, each of which had a distinct share in
the government. Each tribe being divided into ten
curiae, and each curia having an equal vote in the
Comitia, or public assemblies, as every individual
had in his tribe, all questions were decided by the
majority of the suffrages of individuals. There was
no pre-eminence or distinction between the curiae,
and the order in which they gave their votes was
determined by lot. This was a reasonable constitu-
tion, so long as the fortunes of the citizens were nearly
on a par ; but, when riches became to be unequally
divided, it was obvious that much inconvenience
must have arisen from this equal partition of power,
as the rich could easily, by bribery, command the
suffrages of the poor. Besides, all the taxes had
hitherto been levied by the head, without any regard
to the inequality of fortunes. This impolitic and
unjust mode of assessment furnished to Servius an
excellent pretext for an entire change of system.
His plan was, to remove the poorer citizens from all
share of the government by exempting them from all
public burdens, and making these fall solely on the
rich ; by this means he contrived to throw the whole
power of the state into the hands of the superior
order of the citizens, without injury or offence to the
populace.
16. All the citizens were next required, under a
heavy penalty, to declare upon oath their names,
dwellings, number of their children, and amount of
their fortune ; that the taxes and contributions might
be regulated according to their wealth. After this
numeration, or census, Servius divided the whole
citizens, without distinction of rank, birth, or nation,
into four tribes, named from the quarters where they
dvelt, the Palatine , Suburban, Collatine, and Es-
quiline. These comprehended only such as dwelt
within the city. He formed other tribes of such as
lived without the or in the country, and en-
joyed the privilege of Roman citizens—these were
called the Rustic Tribes, and are frequently mentioned
in Roman history. Besides this local division, Ser-
vius distributed the whole people into six classes, and
each class into several centuries , or portions of citizens,
so called, not as actually consisting of 100, but as
being obliged to furnish and maintain 100 men for
the service of the state in time of w r ar. In the first
class, which consisted of the richest citizens, or those
who were worth at least 100 mince (about £3OO
sterling), there were no less than ninety-eight centu-
ries. In the second class (those worth 75 mince, about
£225) there were tw r enty-two centuries. In the third
(those worth 50 mince, about £150) were twenty
centuries. In the fourth (those worth 25 mince, about
£75) twenty-two centuries. In the fifth (those worth
12 mince , about £36) thirty centuries. The sixth,
or last class, though the most numerous of the whole,
comprehending all the poorer citizens, formed only
one century. Thus the whole body of the Roman
people were divided into 193 centuries, or portions of
citizens, so called, as furnishing each 100 soldiers in
time of war. The sixth class was declared exempt
from all taxes ; they were called capite censi, as only
making up a number, or sometimes prolatarii, the
breeders of population. The other classes, according
to the number of centuries of which they consisted,
were rated for the public burdens at so much for each
century.
17. It was evident that the poor had no reason to
complain of this arrangement ; but something was
wanting to indemnify and conciliate the rich for the
burdens to which they were subjected. For this pur-
pose Servius enacted, that henceforth the Comitia
should give their votes by centuries; the lirst class
consisting of ninety-eight centuries, always voting
first: thus, if these were of one mind, which was
often the case in important questions, the suffrages
of the rest were of no avail, and were not asked. If
the first class were not unanimous, the second came
to have a vote, and it was very rarely that the inferior
classes were ever called upon to exercise their right
of suffrage. Thus, although the whole people were
called to the Comitia , and all seemed to have an equal
suffrage, yet, in reality, the richer classes determined
every question, the suffrage of the poor being merely
nominal', for as the Avhole people formed 193 cen-
turies, and the first and second classes contained 120
of these, a majority was easily secured. Thus, in the
Comitia Centuriala, in which the chief magistrates
were elected, peace and Avar decreed, and all other
important business discussed, the richer classes of the
citizens had artfully secured to them the sole authority,
the votes of the poor being of no avail. And such
was the ingenuity of this policy, thatall were pleased
Avith it : the rich paid their taxes with cheerfulness,
as the price of their power ; and the poor gladly
exchanged authority for immunities, until ambitious
men rendered them dissatisfied. The census, per-
formed every five years, was closed by a lustrum , or
expiatory sacrifice; which consisted of a bull, a ram,
and a hog ; and hence that period of time was called
a lustrum.
18. Servius, a genuine and enlightened patriot,
Avas assassinated, after a reign of forty-four years, by
his infamous daughter Tullia, married to Tarquinius,
the grandson of Priscus, Avho thus paved the Avay for
his OAvn elevation to the throne. The government of
Tarquin, surnamed the Proud, Avas systematically
tyrannical. He ingratiated himself Avith the lower
orders, to abase by their means the poAver of the
higher ; but insolent, rapacious, and cruel, he finally
disgusted all ranks of his subjects. This sanguinary
tyrant was suffered to reign for tAventy-four years,
and ay as at last punished for a crime Ayhich was not
his own. His son Sextus, equally laAvlessand cruel,
had committed a rape on the Avife of Collatinus, Avho,
unable to survive her dishonour, stabbed herself in
the presence of her husband and kindred ; this roused
their vengeance, and procured, by their influence Avith
their countrymen, the expulsion of the tyrant, and
the utter abolition of the regal dignity at Rome, (509
b.c.) which had subsisted for 244 years.
19. Reflections on the Government and State of
Rome during the 'period of the Kings. —The Avhole
structure of the constitution of the Romans under the
monarchy has been by most authors erroneously
attributed exclusively to the abilities of Romulus, a
youth of eighteen, the leader of a troop of shepherds
or banditti. This chimerical idea Ave owe to Dio-
nysius of Halicarnassus. The truth is, the Roman
government, like almost every other, Avas the gradual
result of circumstances ; the fruit of time, and of
political emergency.
20. The constitution of the Roman senate hasocca


sioned considerable research, and is not free from
obscurity. It is probable that the kings had the sole
right of naming the senators, that the consuls suc-
ceeded them in this right, and afterwards, when these
magistrates found too much occupation from the
frequent wars in which the state was engaged, that
privilege devolved on the censors. The senators were
at first always chosen from the body of the patricians;
that is, out of those descended from the first centum
patres , who are supposed to have been named by
Romulus, but afterwards the plebeians acquired an
equal title to that dignity. In the early periods of
. the republic, the authority of the senate was very
extensive. No assembly of the people could be called
together but by the senate’s authority ; nor were the
plebiscita, or decrees of the people , of any weight till
confirmed by a second decree of the senate. Hence
the early constitution of the republic was rather aris-
tocratical than democratical. From this extensive
power of the senate, the first diminution was made,
by the creation of the Tribunes of the people ; and
other retrenchments successively took place, till the
people acquired at length the predominant power in
the state. Yet the senate, even after every usurpation
on their authority, continued to have in many points,
a supremacy. They regulated all matters regarding
religion ; they had the custody of the public treasure;
they superintended the conduct of all magistrates ;
they gave audience to ambassadors, decided on the
fate of vanquished nations, disposed of the govern-
ments of the provinces, and took cognizance, by
appeal, in all crimes against the state. In great
emergencies they appointed a Dictator, with absolute
authority. Such were the acknowledged powers of
the Roman senate through the whole period of the
commonwealth.
21. At the period of the abolition of the regal go-
vernment, the territory of the Romans was extremely
limited. It is said to have been only forty miles in
length and thirty in breadth. The only use they yet
made of their victories was to naturalize the inhabi-
tants of some of the conquered stales, and so increase
their population. By this wise policy they became a
powerful state, though within a narrow territory ;
because their strength was always superior to their
enterprises. In this manner they laid a solid foun-
dation for the future extension of the empire.
22. In the accounts given by historians of the
strength of the armies, both of the Romans in those
early times, and of the neighbouring states their
enemies, we have every reason to believe there is
much exaggeration. The territories from which those
armies were furnished, were incapable of supplying
them.
23. In the continual wars in which the republic
was engaged, the Romans were most commonly the
aggressors. The causes of this seem to have been
the ambition of the consuls to distinguish their short
administration by some splendid enterprise, and the
wish of the senate to give the people occupation, to
prevent intestine disquiets.
24. The regal government subsisted 244 years,
and during all that time only seven kings reigned,
several of whom died a violent death, and the last ol
them lived thirteen years after his expulsion. This
statement is extraordinary, and is calculated to throw
doubt on the authenticity of this period of the Roman
history. Itisallowed that, for the first five centuries
after the building of Rome, there were no historians.
The first Roman who undertook to write the history
of his country was Fabius Pictor, who lived during
the second Punic war (a. u. c. 535, and b. c. 218), to
which period he brought down his history. Livy
says that almost all the ancient records were destroyed
by fire when Rome was taken by the Gauls, and
therefore, with great candour, states that he does not
warrant the authenticity of what he relates of those
ancient times.
LIFE BEHIND THE COUNTER,
OR, THE DRAPER’S ASSISTANT.
[concluded.]
Three months passed away, changing bright, flower-
ing May to fruitful, golden August. Not that the
different seasons, indeed, were much perceived in the
establishment of Messrs. Scrape, Haveall, & Co.;
unless it were that the more balmy the air, or in-
viting the day for out-of-door enjoyment, the more
crowded was the shop, and the later was it kept open ;
and when at last it was closed, there were the goods
to put away ; so that it was no unusual thing for the
jaded and worn-out assistants to see the dawn before
retiring to their yet more crowded dormitories, whence
to arise, in three or four hours, with wearied limbs
and aching head, to fulfil again the sad routine of
their unvaried life. Yet, though the glad sunshine,
or the perfumed summer breezes, made little dif-
ference to Herbert and his companions, a change, a
something to be felt rather than described, had taken
place in the establishment; or perhaps I should say,
in a small division of it; for Howard, and the few
who listened to his advice, formed, after all, a very
decided minority. Yet it w r as remarkable that these
few were the most respectable and best conducted in-
dividuals in the house ; and, moreover, the chief
favourites with regular customers, who naturally
prefer being waited on by some one in whom they
have confidence.
It may have been guessed that Alice Markham
possessed a stronger mind, and more fixed principles,
than her brother; perhaps it was so, or perhaps his
youth may be pleaded as an apology for the one act
which had caused her so much pain ; for in three
years, at their age, the mind takes a great spring.
However this might be, William Howard soon found
that in Alice Markham he had met a kindred spirit;
one who in a righteous cause would play the martyr,
either by action or endurance. But why lengthen the
tale? Could they speak with earnest reasoning, and
exchange high thoughts w r ith glowing enthusiasm,
without perceiving that their hearts w r ere growing one ?
And in the joy and glory of a pure and passionate
love, health and life, and a few hours in the four-
and-twenty for social intercourse and mental improve-
ment, seemed more than ever w r orth a struggle. So
greatly had poor Alice suffered from the fatigue con-
sequent on such unreasonable hours of attendance in
the shop, that William How r ard persuaded her to
petition for employment in the rooms, where, needle-
work necessary in making up things for sale being
done, she might sit a portion of the day. It is true
that this arrangement deprived them of opportunities
of exchanging many a cherished w’ord; but in all
I human probability it saved the life of Alice; we
shall see presently for what.


It was the custom of Herbert and Alice to spend a
portion of the Sunday with William Howard and
his mother. The three' usually attended church
together, and then, taking a walk —for fresh air in
the parks, if possible—make the humble dwelling of
the widow their halting-place for the day. Some-
times, but not often, Alice and her brother dined by
invitation at their uncle’s; and on one remarkable
occasion, a postscript was added to the note of invi-
tation, intimating that, if they liked to bring with
them the young friend they had so often mentioned,
he would be welcome.
Mr. and Mrs. Markham had invited a new appren-
tice of the former (with whom he had accepted rather
an extra premium) to meet their young visiters, all
of whom they received with feelings of hospitality,
decidedly strengthened by the pleasant consciousness
of patronage. Even the elderly young lady, their
daughter, had thought it quite worth while to deck
herself in smiles, and put on her most becoming dress.
What little kindness will kindle gratitude in affec-
tionate hearts! Never had Herbert and Alice felt so
much regard for their relatives as from their courtesy
they did this day, tracing, even in the “ nice” dinner
of salmon and lamb which had been provided, the
thought of their gratification. The consequence was
that their hearts were opened, and they conversed
with much less reserve than usual ; and certain topics
at last were started, on which William Howard spoke
with the earnest enthusiasm which belonged to his
nature.
“ 0 dear !” said Miss Markham, who, having lately
adopted ringlets, affected with them extreme juve-
nility —“ 0 dear! it would be such a pity to shut up
the shops at dark ; it would make the streets look
quite dull, I declare.”
“ But, Madam,” replied Howard, “ if you think of
the tens of thousands who would be made happy by
such a custom, the lives that would be preserved, the
health that would be retained —and, more than all,
the moral advancement which must result from a
moderate time being afforded for reading and mental
improvement ”
“ Oh, Sir,” said Mr. Markham, very decidedly,
i{ I don’t see what apprentices and assistants want
with reading. It would fill their heads with a parcel
of nonsense—that is all.”
Howard coloured deeply, yet he continued with
much self-control —“ I do not say that it is desirable
that such persons should become what are calfed
‘ literary but I hope, Mr. Markham, you will agree
with me that some taste for reading, some desire for
mental cultivation, must form the best safeguard
against habits of idle dissipation ; whereas a body
jaded and worn by fifteen or sixteen hours of anxious
toil disinclines the mind for action, and tempts too
many to seek a momentary stimulant. I may well
say anxious toil, for a situation has been known to
depend on an assistant persuading a customer to buy
an article for which she had no inclination.”
il Yes,” said Mrs. Markham, “ you do plague one
dreadfully. Ido declare there is no getting out of a
shop without buying.”
“ Aunt,” said Alice, gently, “ I think the mischief
is the system of falsehood it teaches ; oh ! if you knew
the things I have heard and witnessed.”
You should not tell tales out of school, niece,”
exclaimed hetruncle, “ every trade has its tricks—
that I know.”
u More is the pity, though!” said the grocer’s
apprentice, growing alarmingly bold from the treason
to which he had been an attentive listener. There
was no verbal answer, but Mr. Markham darted a
fiery glance around, which, however, only Alice read
correctly ; while her aunt again spoke, saying—
“ Besides, Sir, how could servants and many others,
who are engaged all day, make their purchases if the
shops were closed at night 1 ?”
“ I imagine, Madam, that under such an arrange-
ment mistresses would allow servants the liberty of
going out for this purpose in the day. It has even
been argued that it would be an advantage to such
persons, inasmuch as they would escape the liability
of being imposed on by candle-light, or of purchasing
an unsuitable article by accident, and would be less
likely to be tempted on occasions to spend their
money foolishly, than from the facility they now
have of doing so at all hours. At least, this is the
manner in which w r e meet this common objection ;
but it certainly rests greatly with those who are free
agents, who can purchase at what hours they like, to
exert the great influence of example by doing so at
early hours.”
il It seems to me, young gentleman,” replied Mr.
Markham, u that in all your arrangements you leave
the masters’ interests entirely out of the question.”
“ Not so, I assure you, Sir; for they would reap
many advantages in possessing a superior set of ser-
vants, who would have better health, and more alacrity
to serve them ; besides, the system of early hours once
established, purchasers would make their arrange-
ments accordingly. They would choose the articles
they require early in the day—not go without them ;
and the result would be active occupation during the
hours of business, instead of, as is often the case,
only the appearance of it; for we are ordered to seem
busy whether we are so or not. Ob, Sir, if you only
knew the.misery and mischief which have gone on
for the last thirty years, accumulating and pro-
gressing, you would see the necessity of a change.”
“ No, I do not see it,” returned their host, “ and
I disapprove of this discontent among young people,
and be ■to hear no more of it. Young people must
take their chance and work their way, as others have
done before them.”
Yes, in as mortal danger of life as the soldier on
the battle-field (for this is the computed, ascertained
fact ) —from breathing foul air—from want of suffi-
cient rest —from continued over-exertion—from hur-
ried and irregular meals, and frequently improper-
food ; and in the peril of mind and morals which
must result from the systematic teaching of much
falsehood, and the absence of all leisure for estab-
lishing religious principles—for cultivating the in-
tellectual nature, and enjoying the healthful influence
of social intercourse. But Mr. Markham, who spoke
thus, considered himself a person of strict principles,
and, above ail, of business habits ; so that he thought
it his duty to apprise the governing powers in the
establishment of Messrs. Scrape & Haveall (they had
lately given him a large order for groceries), that
they had a dangerous rebel in their house. The
next day William Howard was discharged!
Again three months have passed—changing now
golden, glowing August to dull November.
In a very humble dwelling were assembled, one
Sunday evening, William Howard, his mother, and


Alice Markham. An open Bible was on the table,
from -which the latter had been reading aloud, until
the gathering tears stayed her voice, and she paused;
her listeners knowing too well the reason of her
silence to ask it. Alas! William Howard was now
a confirmed invalid : anxiety of mind on losing his
situation, and probably a cold taken in going about
seeking another, had completed the work so long
begun —the fiat w'as gone forth—consumption had
marked him as its own. He knew the truth, and was
resigned to the will of God •, not with that dogged,
hardened, brute courage, which may meet death un-
flinchingly, but with that holy trust in his mercy,
that while the heart feels the dear ties of life, it has
yet strength to say meekly, 44 Thy will be done!”
44 So you think, dear Alice,” said Mrs. Howard,
making an effort to change the current of all their
thoughts, 44 you think that Herbert and yourself will
obtain situations in the establishment we w'ere speak-
ing of, where they close at seven o’clock?—blessings
on them, for having the courage and humanity to set
such an example!”
44 I have no doubt of it,” said Alice, trying to
speak cheerfully ; 44 for they only wait to see Mr.
Haveall ; and whatever evil may have been going on
in the house, he cannot accuse us of participating in
it. Ah, William, what a happiness it must be to you,
to know that your influence saved Herbert from
becoming as false and unworthy as so many of his
companions ; and I—oh ! how much do I owe you!”
William Howard was scarcely allowed to speak,
for the slightest exertion brought on the cough, but
he wrote on a slate which was kept near him—
-44 Less, dearest, than I owe you ; truth and virtue
never seemed so lovely as when reflected from your
conduct.”
44 There was a long pause after the writing was
erased ; and presently the bells from neighbouring
churches were heard sounding for evening service.
William Howard wrote upon the slate —
44 Mother, will you go to church to-night, and
leave me, as you have sometimes done, with Alice?”
Mrs. Howard rose, and, kissing his pale forehead,
said solemnly—
-44 I will pray for all of us -. I am inconsiderate to
leave you so seldom together.”
44 No, no,” murmured her son, 44 only for to-night”
The lovers were together. Lovers! what an earthly
word for two such beings as William and Alice!
The one—
-44 Whose shadow fell upon the grave—•
He stood so near”—
the other in the years of opening life, with, in human
probability, a long and solitary course before her.
The heart of Alice was too pure for her to play the
prude for an instant. She knelt on a stool beside the
large easy chair in which he was supported, and,
passing her arm round his neck, rested her own head
upon his pillow, so that she could overlook the little
slate on which he wrote, and murmur her answers
into his ear. Nay, I think she pressed a kiss or two
upon the skeleton fingers, before they traced these
words -.
44 Tell me the truth, dear Alice; where does the
money come from, by means of w'hich I am sur-
rounded with so many comforts? It cannot be my
mother’s needlew r ork that earns it.”
44 And you are too proud to take a little of our
savings ?”
44 No, darling, I am not. Pride does not become the
dying ; but more is spent than even this accounts for.’*
“ Then I will tell you,” said Alice, after a pause ;
‘ 4 I think the truth will give you pleasure. The
fellow-assistants who profited by your advice, and
who feel that you are among the first few to whom
they are indebted for the better order of things -which
is coming, have insisted in clubbing together to afford
you every comfort in your illness.”
The slate dropped from his hand, and he wrote no
more. Did they both forget the physician’s injunc-
tion that he should not speak ?
44 May God bless them for it!” burst feebly from
his lips, yet more hurriedly than the phrase could
have been written ; 44 and yet,” he continued, 44 they
can ill afford it, especially now that they want every
guinea to further the plans of the association for their
relief. Oh, Alice ! is it really true that so many of
the employers have joined ?”
“ Many,” returned Alice, almost joyfully ; 44 many
of the most respectable houses already close at seven ;
and, though they are prepared to suffer a little at first,
from the opposition of those who keep open, they
seem at last to be carrying out your favourite motto,
4 to follow the right whithersoever it may lead.’ Nay,
they do say that the hours of toil will ultimately be
reduced to ten—enough for poor humanity, as we
know who have worked .”
44 And for me to rob them at such a time !” mur-
mured Howard, sinking his head upon the shoulder
of Alice. She kissed his cheek—his lips—his fore-
head— and felt the hot tears streaming from his eyes.
44 There is a way,” said Alice, softly, her cheek
tingling, she knew not why — 44 there is a means for
present need, if it could be adopted. You know my
uncle will not give me a farthing of my hundred
pounds, nor can I touch it for some months to come —
yet —yet —it is so left—that —that—if I had married,
it would have become my husband’s.”
44 Well, dearest?”
Alice again paused, but her cheek leaned against
his—her lips touched his ear —and she murmured,
44 Could it not so be yours ?”
For a while there was no audible answer. William
Howard raised his head from Alice Markham’s
shoulder, and gazed for a moment on the dark and
earnest eyes which met his own with no coquettish
shrinking, but with a look that” revealed the depths of
her soul.
44 No, never !” he exclaimed, in a louder voice than
had been heard for many weeks ; and while he twined
his arms around her with something of recovered
strength, words of endearment burst from his lips, and
broken phrases that might be interpreted, “youth’s
bright imaginings, and poets’ dreams, are dull delu-
sions compared with such a heart as this!”
And then came the paroxysm of the cough, after
so much excitement, and he sank back on his pillow's
as helpless as an infant. A little while, and they
spoke of death, not of marriage, quite calmly; and
yet his frame shook w'hen Alice murmured, 44 1—I
will be as a child to your mother—and Herbert, too.
O, William ! he will not disgrace your teaching.”
Again the horrid knell of that painful, tearing
cough ; and once more his head drops fondly on her
shoulder. But there is a gush of something that
comes even hotter and faster than scalding tears; in
the cough he has broken a blood-vessel, and the life ~


stream flows from his pale lips on the bosom of his
faithful, high-hearted Alice ! A few hours of mortal
life were ail that remained to William Howard.
Header, this is a common story ; one that in all its
human emotions has been felt and acted thousands of
times. There is something so blinding in custom,
that the best and wisest of us are slow to see evils
that do not come directly home to us. How many a
gentle and sensitive woman, that has wept over the
vivid pages of romance, or lent her keenest sympathies
to the ideal sorrows of the drama, has, month after
month, and year after year, visited the gay and gor-
geous shops of the “ Metropolitan Drapers,” without
so much as dreaming of the deep and real tragedies
that uere enacting “behind the counter!” The
blighted youth —the ruined health —the early graves
.—the withered minds —the corrupted morals—and,
oh ! the noble spirits, the true heroes of private life,
who, standing forward to cheer and teach, by precept
and example, have won the guerdon of eternal grati-
tude from their class. To my mind, it seems there
must have been many William Howards ere the
** Metropolitan Drapers’ Association” could have been
formed ; an association now encouraged and assisted
by clergy, members of Parliament, influential literary
and philanthropic gentlemen, and the most respectable
employers in London.
And, alas! there must have been many a selfish,
narrow-minded man, like Mr. Markham, with heart
contracted by the very system he attempted to uphold,
ere the wrongs of the oppressed could have grown so
deep as to require such a remedy.
Gentle, kind-hearted lady, Avho would not hurt a
noxious insect in your path—who, if your pet bird
pined in its gilded cage, would open the door to give
it the option of liberty —think how much good there
is in your power to do! Remember that units make
up the millions. Raise your voice bravely to assert
the right; and in your household see that it is done.
Forbid the late shopping—forbid even all trading
with the houses that do keep open. Think, too, it is
the merry month of May —bright summer, golden
autumn, are before us ; then turn in thought, as you
breathe the perfume of flowers, or inhale the fresh
sea-breeze, to those crowded shops, and their sickly,
heart-crushed denizens ! Yet they might have the
morning and evening walk in the bright summer, and
in the winter the cheerful fireside, the friendly con-
verse, and the pleasant book. Health might bloom
on their cheeks, and joy sparkle in their eyes.
LOCKE’S CONFESSION OF BELIEF.
Among John Locke’s invaluable miscellaneous papers, edited
by Lord King, are the following confessions of belief, which
Locke entitles
THUS I THINK.
It is a man’s proper business to seek happiness and avoid
misery.
Happiness consists in what delights and contents the mind,
misery in what disturbs, discomposes, or torments it.
I will therefore make it my business to seek satisfaction and
delight, and avoid uneasiness and disquiet ; to have as much
of the one and as little of the other as may be.
But here I must have a care I mistake not; for if I prefer
a short pleasure to a lasting one, it is plain I cross my own
happiness.
Let me then see wherein consists the most lasting pleasures
of this life, and that, as far as I can observe, is in these things :
Ist, Health—without which no sensual pleasure can have
any relish.
2d, Reputation—for that I find every body is pleased with,
and the want of it is a constant torment.
3d, Knowledge—for the little knowledge I have, I find I
would not sell at any rate, nor part with for any other pleasure.
4th, Doing good—for I find the well-cooked meat I ate
to-day does now no more delight me; nay, I am diseased after
a full meal. The perfumes I smelt yesterday now no more
affect me with any pleasure, but the good turn I did yesterday,
a year, seven years since, continoes still to please and delight
me as often as I reflect on it.
sth, The expectation of eternal and incomprehensible hap-
piness in another world is that also which carries a constant
pleasure with it.
If, then, I will faithfully pursue that happiness, I propose
to myself, whatever pleasure offers itself to me, I must care-
fully look that it cross not any of those five great and constant
pleasures above mentioned. For example, the fruit I see
tempts me with the taste of it that I love ; but if it endangered
my health, I part with a constant and lasting for a very short
and transient pleasure, and so foolishly make myself unhappy,
and am not true to my own interest.
Hunting, plays, and other innocent diversions, delight me :
if I make use of them to refresh myself after study and business,
they preserve my health, restore the vigour of my mind, and
increase my pleasure ; but if I spend all, or the greatest part
of my time in them, they hinder my improvement in knowledge
and useful arts, they blast my credit, and give me up to the
uneasy state of shame, ignorance, and contempt, in which I
cannot but be very unhappy. Drinking, gaming, and vicious
delights, will do me this mischief, not only by wasting my time,
but by a positive efficacy endanger my health, impair my parts,
imprint ill habits, lessen my esteem, and leave a constant
lasting torment on my conscience ; therefore all vicious and
unlawful pleasures I will always avoid, because such a mastery
of my passions will afford me a constant pleasure greater than
any such enjoyments, and also deliver me from the certain evil
of several kinds, that by indulging myself in a present tempta-
tion, I shall certainly afterwards suffer.
All innocent diversions and delights, as far as they will
contribute to my health, and consist with my improvement,
condition, and my other more solid pleasures of knowledge and
reputation, I will enjoy, but no farther; and this I will care-
fully watch and examine, that I may not be deceived by the
flattery of a present pleasure to lose a greater.
Varieties.
A Man may be his own Grandfather. —Demonstration :
If A B marry C D with a daughter E F, and G H, the father
of A B, marry E F, it is clear that A B, being the father-in-
law of E F, becomes, by such marriage, the father-in-law of
his own father. Ergo—A B being father to his own father, is
his own grandfather.
Speculation. —A word that too often begins with its second
letter.
Vegetaele Origins. —Turnips and carrots are thought in*
digenal roots of France. Our cauliflowers came from Cyprus ;
our artichokes from Sicily; lettuce from Cos, a name cor-
rupted into Gause; shallots, or eschallots, from Ascalon. 1
have been reading on the subject, and was struck with the
numerous ideas on commerce and civilization which may arise
from a dinner. Will you have a dessert from memory? The
cherry and filbert are from Pontus, the citron from Media, the
chestnut from Castana in Asia Minor, the peach and the
walnut from Asia, the plum from Syria, the pomegranate from
Cyprus, the quince from Cydon, the olive and fig from Greece,
as are the best apples and pears, though also found wild in
France, and even here. The apricot is from Armenia.
If ye sell yeur purse to your wife, gie her your breeks to
the bargain.


The Moralist.
GRATITUDE.
A 8 the branches of the tree return their sap to the root from
whence it arose ; as a river poureth her streams to the sea,
where his spring was supplied ; so the heart of a grateful man
delighteth in returning a benefit received.
He acknowledgeth his obligations with cheerfulness; he
looketh on his benefactor with love and esteem.
And if to return it be not in his power, he nourisheth the
memory of it in his breast with kindness, he forgetteth it not
all the days of his life.
The hand of the generous man is like the clouds of heaven,
which drop upon the earth, fruits, herbage, and flowers; but
the heart of the ungrateful is like a desert of sand, which
swalloweth with greediness the showers that fall, and burieth
them in its bosom, and produceth nothing.
Envy not thy benefactor, neither strive to conceal the
benefit he hath conferred ; for though the act of generosity
commandeth admiration; yet the humility of gratitude
taucheth the heart, and is amiable in the sight both of God
and man.
But receive not a favour from the hands of the proud : to
the selfish and avaricious have no obligation : the vanity of
pride shall expose thee to shame, the greediness of avarice
shall never be satisfied.
MORAL MAXIMS.
ALPHABETICALLY ARRANOKD.
No. 26.
Better lose a supper tlian gain a hundred physicians.
Better ride on an ass that carries tne, than a horse that
throws me.
Better spare of thy own, than ask of other men.
Better to be alone than in bad company.
Better to be untaught, than ill-taught.
Better to do well late than never.
Better to live well than long.
Better to slip with the foot than the tongue.
Better to suffer without cause, than to have cause for suffering
Between two brothers, have two witnesses and a notary.
Between virtue and vice there is no middle path.
Beware of a bad woman, and be careful how you trust a
good one.
A Quarrel is, in nine cases out of ten, merely the fermen-
tation of a misunderstanding.
Happiness. —The Stoics taught that happiness was only to
be found in the practice of virtue. They denied that health,
reputation, and riches were, properly speaking, good; and
they contended that poverty, ignominy, and pain were not evils.
*• Virtue alone,” said their founder, “ is sufficient to happiness;
and the wise man may enjoy it at all times, be his condition
what it may.”
How to Value Others. —It is a common error—of which
the wise man will beware—to measure the worth of our
neighbour by his conduct towards ourselves. How many rich
souls might we not rejoice in the knowledge of, were it not
for our pride.
Party Spirit. —Those who are actuated by a spirit of
party themselves, are sure to attribute similar feelings to others :
they cannot imagine that a man can be zealous and in earnest,
without feeling an antipathy to those who differ from him.. ..
The Church of Christ has no deadlier enemies than those who
seek to divide it into parties, and who are always looking out for
points of difference rather than those of agreement. — Burton.
The truest mark of distinction between a genuine Christian
and a mere moralist, pliarisaical or philosophical, I take to
be, that the latter finds his ease in being insensible to his
secret faults ; while the former is easiest when he is most
tenderly sensible of them.— Knox.
God’s Goodness. —God would not permit evil to exist, if he
had not some greater good to bring out of it.— Aiigustine.
Affliction teacheth a wicked person some time to pray;
prosperity, never.
Carefully avoid those vices which most resemble virtue,
they are the most dangerous of all vices.
No one in his heart derides religion long. What are we—
any of us? Religion will soon be our only care and friend.
Pride is seldom delicate —it will please itself with very
mean advantages; and envy feels not its own happiness, but
when it may be compared with fhe misery of others.
Select Poetry.
BEAUTY’S PREDICAMENT.
’Twix? Passion and Indifference Beauty sat,
Prudence to this, Love swaying her to that:
And thus Indifference with his cold mouth spoke :
“ Most easy, lady ! is my quiet yoke:
I lead thee not to trespass nor desire ;
And hold thee temperate in the midst of fire !”
Said Passion, with a voice all tremulous —
His pale cheek crimsoned, eye di< ; ’ , . —
“ O, fly me not for him to whom the sun,
Moon, stars, in their blue-bedded union,
Are but a common show ; whom flowers and song
Charm to no feeling as he gropes along ;
Who, meeting all things with a niggard measure,
Still coldly stagnates betwix.t'grief and pleasure ;
And, freezing, in his cell doth sleep and die,
With no heart his in all mortality 1
O, turn to me ! for I can colour heaven,
And robe the grey morn and the purple even
In more than their own glory ; air and skies
Filled with dream’d memories of Paradise ;
And bid the earth teem with high thoughts and feelings
That for my listless foe have no revealings !
I with a word can wake heart melody;
I with a glance can make felicity ;
I with a touch can call up ecstacy !” —
And what did lady Beauty in this strait?”
As Prudence bade, to where Indifference sat
She turn’d and seem’d to move : Love nearer flew,
And an invisible chain so round her threw,
That, whilst to reach Indifference she tried,
He drew her deftly to sweet Passion’s side ;
And fix’d her there a prisoner, rapt and bound.
But long she breathed not on this human ground !
What chanced was sad: in that new, warm controu),
She died amid the sweets of her own soul—
Just as poor bees, in station over-sunny,
Are drowu’d i’ the hive of their own molten honey.
WADE.
HOPES.
« 0 cot! why seek’st thou with such care
Those b bles of the sea?
Thv touch but frees the prison’d air.”
“ I’m gathering hopes 1” saith he.
“ Old man, why in that shatter’d bark
Dost ten t this troubled sea,
Without a i :mpass, rudder, mark?”
“ I’m following hope !” saith he.
— Memcriter.
AN ADMIRER OF NATURE.
In vain the witchery of words would tell
How deeply with the universe he shared,
To all of which he seem’d enlink’d by love.—
The hues and harmonies of blended things
Were beauty, to the magic of his mind :
And all the thousand wheels of moving life.
Made intellectual melodies, that roll’d
For ever to the charming of his soul!
Such warm imaginings, where’er he came,
A glittering falseness on the true and stern
Suffused ; and through the light of feeling shone
The scene of Earth, and countenance of Heaven.—
The young enchantment of angelic spring
Flow’d in his veins, voluptuously deep.
The gentle being of a flower was dear
To him, nor would he tread its life away;
Nor wander in the soundless gloom of dell
Or grove, without a sympathetic hush.
And oh! to view him when the balmy night
Breathed o’er the quiet world, and from her throne
The lustrous moon on tree and temple pour’d
The pallid radiance of her peaceful smile, —■
In the full worship of hie soul he seem’d
Dissolving in the loveliness around !
MONTGOMERY.


iftottCC.
The Editor does not hold himself responsible for the opinions ) znd
assertions contained in the correspondence and contributions in-
serted in the Colonial Literary Journal.
Notice to CCorrcspcntrcnts.
“ Reward.” On this subject we have received two additional
animadversary letters. We think it best to avoid the conti-
nuance of already rather a prolix controversy, and therefore
shall not insert the very excellent epistles of “ Amicus” and
“ A Subscriber.” The fear of the latter —“ lest silence here
should egotistically be misconstrued to signify conviction" will
be prevented by this notice.
“ Plorator.” There is much pleasing sentiment in this short
essay, though destroyed by considerable inaccuracy. Can the
dead " merit sympathy ?”—can we “ give sympathy ” to the
dead ?
“J. TV’ Our correspondent's poetic powers are not equal to the
due expression of his ideas.
*‘J. F. P.” As we did not consider a reply necessary to our
communication, we are the more.pleased at receiving the one now
before us, however late, and are bound especially to thank our
correspondent for the very kind sentiments expressed therein.
Notice to Subscribers.
Our Subscribers are informed that, as the present Number, in
point of numerical fact, completes the first half-year's issue of
Twenty-six Numbers, our next week's publication (being an
extra No.) will be so arranged as to include, (together with
part of the usual contents,) a Title-page, Preface, and copious
Index, for the benefit of our readers.
CATALLACTICS.
[continued]
We were driven for a week from our Catallactics by
a friend "whispering in our ear that we were growing
dogmatical. We know that much speaking without
contradiction is very apt to engender magisterial airs.
For example, our very respected friend M. (or N. as
the case may be) has acquired that habit of positive-
ness. If we have on former occasions fallen jnto
this fault, we fear we shall make more than sufficient
amends for it by the degree of hesitation with which
we shall express our opinions in the present lecture.
On our great principles we have indeed no hesitation,
though perhaps even from these there may be dissen-
tients. What Liebig—a strange name for a most
truth telling philosopher—says of the body animal is
equally true of the body social. “ That condition of
the body which is called health includes the concep-
tion of an equilibrium among all the .causes of waste
and of supply ; and this animal life is recognised as
the mutual action of both ; and appears as an alter-
nating destruction and restoration of the state of
equilibrium.” Did we not say the same of capital ?
Did we not say that capital, land, and labour, must
be duly proportioned to each other, and severally
"well assorted, and that a continual process of absorp-
tion and reproduction of the profits of their employ-
ment must go on? that they must naturally act and
react, disappearing and reappearing in a soft ever-
bubbling agitation, accompanied by a slight progressive
increase of either the quantity or the productive qua-
lities of each ? Did we not say that in the due
maintenance of this easy undulatory and radiative
geometrical series, consisted the prosperity of the
community ? As we allow that paper money is
naught if inconvertible into gold, so we aver that
gold is naught if inconvertible into fixed capital;
and the whole of them,notes, coin, buildings, machi.
nery, fields, flocks, human labour, food, and manure,
are naught except as mutually convertible. Let no
man carp at this—we speak not of individuals,
classes, or limited sodalities, but of the mixed com-
munity which embraces them. The pursuit of selfish,
peculiar and exclusive objects affords no satisfactory
results. Temporary success in any one species of
social action, if acquired at the expense, to the neglect,
or in disproportion, of other kinds, cannot be perma-
nently maintained, or will be attended with coun-
tervailing disadvantages. Alas ! these disadvantages
are not merely of a peculiar nature —the unsettling
of the libration produces vice and misery in many
forms, and often serious shocks endangering the
machine itself.
We remind you that there are large sums lying in
England dedicated to our use. But our mercantile
needs cannot absorb them—our legitimate commerce
cannot employ them safely and profitably. Yet, we
do not like the idea of paying back to the English
shareholders these bank monies, after having been
once paid up and set apart as they are. We have not
strength of mind to contemplate such an act of sel
denial. If possible, we would take advantage of their
contributions, by converting them into a loan for tho
purposes of immigration and internal improvement.
We feel inclined to take the money ; to secure the
lenders, we would pledge the entire revenues of the
crown territorial and casual, the revenues of the
colony of every description, the whole property of the
colony real and chattel, and we would pledge the
faith of the executive, of the legislative, and of every
minor council; to employ it judiciously, we would
invest it till wanted in the British funds, and as we
ought to get it at four per cent, we should during the
interval of its remaining unoccupied lose little by the
delay. We would then open a treaty with the
British government, or even with the commissioners
of parishes, for relieving them of surplus families at
the joint expense of themselves and us. We think
the British ought to fit the families out with six
months necessaries, and pay the passages of the
children under 14, and the adults above 45 years of
age ; and the colony should out of this loan pay the
passages of all persons from 14 to 45, approved by its
agents, and engage to furnish them with employment
either in private service at such wages as the settlers
should be willing to give, or on public works at a
fixed minimum. For local purposes we would lend
to the district councils, (institutions for the revival of
which the people would in their revived state cry
with might and main, as an essential part of social
organism,) such sums, from time to time, as the cir-
cumstances stated in each application for assistance,
and general ends in view, would warrant as safe and
reasonable, and as we would charge them five per
cent., or some slightly advanced rate of interest, we
should have very little occasion to draw upon either
the crown or colonial revenues for the interest in-
curred to the banks. This interest, however, we
would pay partly out of each. The expense of
management need not be much more than has been—
nor the method materially different.
As we are anxious to impregnate the pensive public
with the conviction that labour is about to become
scarce, and that, even if sheep farming alone is to be
carried on to good account, immigration must be con-
tinued ; we may be pardoned in reiterating with a


somewhat altered set of numbers part of a former
statement.
Assuming our present population at 165,000 the
round 100,000 are males, the remaining 65,000
females. The latter are pretty well proportioned as
regards the different ages ; and therefore we shall
say no more about them —bless them ! But the
former are not well proportioned in respect of ages,
or occupations, or in respect of the other sex. To
adjust the proportions of sexes and ages, it would be
necessary to withdraw from the population 28,000 of
adult males betwixt the ages of 21 and 45, who are
condemned to a life of enforced celibacy. The class
of ages to which these preternatural individuals belong
is diminishing by deaths, and by transition into the
next older class at a much more rapid rate than their
ranks can be recruited from below. In 1841 when
the general population was 130,856 their number was
53,381, (the females corresponding being then only
19,513) —at present, we believe, although the popu-
lation is increased to 165,000 that they do not exceed
49,000, (the females of like ages being about 18,000.)
The occurrences of recent date have prevented the
decrease from telling practically. But the ink of
our last discourse was scarcely dry, when our deduc-
tions were confirmed by the receipt of intelligence
that nothing in the shape of a shepherd can be pro-
cured in the Port Phillip district under £22 10s. to
£25. If this be already the fact, it is a good argu-
ment, so far as it reaches, for the purpose for which
the southern editor uses it, to establish the necessity
of introducing fresh hands. But we would select
these hands from the mother country before, not after,
their virtue has been subdued by their necessity, and
before the working of feeble and cruel laws have added
contamination and shame to their sufferings. More-
over, we are antimalthusian, and detest Coelebs except
when he is in search of a wife.
Of labour, as of the other material, capital, there
is abundance for our use in England, and that of the
best description, whether we go to the agricultural or
manufacturing districts. The Irishman, when eman-
cipated from his local associations and superstitions,
(and by the bye we have often wondered how he
disposes of his druidical fooleries in a new country,)
and when stimulated by pay or the prospect of inde-
pendence, is extremely handy, docile, and industrious.
But though gregarious he is unsocial. You can’t get
him out of town, nor will he for two or three gene-
rations to come melt down into a homogeneous state
with the rest of the population. The Scotchmen of
the lowlands are almost all bred to some handicraft,
and therefore very few of them are available to us —
still from the handloom weavers a considerable and
Valuable supply might be procured—and in several
parts of the Highlands, honest and careful labourers
and shepherds. But to Scotland, there is this objec-
tion, that there it would be difficult to negotiate for
payment of that portion of the expense which we have
contemplated throwing on the parishes. The same
difficulty would be experienced in Ireland—besides
that we are happy to learn that great expanse for the
employment of capital and labour is, under an ame-
liorated social condition, begun to be worked, and the
same necessity for exporting labour does not now
exist, as in the highly cultivated ground of England.
On the subject of land, we may aver that the
quantity available for the absorption of capital and
labour is in this colony unlimited ; or practically
limited only by temporary circumstances.
Whether the government minimum price of land
had in the last few years been 55., 125., or 20s. ; we
are convinced, (though it be esteemed a heresy,) that
the price to the user would have been quite the same,
or, perhaps higher, than it has been, for the land spe-
culators would have been all the more able to compete
and monopolize ; Avhile the land-fund, and conse-
quently the quantity of labour introduced, would
have been greatly inferior to what it has been. Any
augmented profits thus arising to the large purchasers
would but have aggravated the calamities of the .
colony, by enabling the engrossers of land, of flour,
of sugar and tea, and of government contracts, to
combine and more effectually bear down general
competition. The circumstance of the lands having
been sold out of the hands of government, will not
in the long run be of any different effect. They will
still be open to purchase in the hands of private
persons, at generally much lower prices than the
government would have consented to put them up
at. The injurious and eager scramble which has
been witnessed would not have been prevented by a
low price—and the future occupant will be upon
much the same footing as otherwise. The present
restrictions on the disposability of the most suitable
descriptions of land, consist of mortgages and trus-
teeships already alluded to. We may add contingent
claims of dower, defective titles, and dilapidations,
besides (what we fear are not quite so transient) dis-
advantages of communication with ports and markets.
The most untoward of these circumstances will how-
ever disappear with more or less rapidity as labour
and capital are more or less vigorously and judiciously
applied. In some future discourses we will probably
show that this extensive colony, possessing a great
diversity of temperature, possesses also an abundance
of fertile soil, and is capable of growing every species
of product at present marketable and remunerative to
great advantage in one or other of its localities.
Wheat in relation to the middle district may almost
be given up, except as regards those inland farms
which virtually enjoy a protection against external
competition, so far at least as their own local needs
are concerned, in the expense of carriage inwaids.
The interior is not now so dependant on the supply
of flour from Sydney as it was seven years ago.
Mills are now found at a short distance from every
establishment, and some parts of the uplands are so
much more productive and certain in seasons than the
lands on the river banks and seaboard, that they even
supply Sydney cheaper than the latter can do. If
the farmers were indeed able to store up their surplus
corn, in such wise as to be forthcoming in seasons
when Van Diemen’s Land, Valparaiso, and the other
Australias, were unable to yield the required supply
from the crops of the year, corn might acquire a more
steady and remunerating price. But still it would
not be prudent to make our prosperity the dependent
of one species of industry.
To ascertain the capabilities of an untried country,
we ought, first, to inquire what it produces sponta-
neously or indigenously ; secondly, what other
countries of similar soils and climates do produce ,
and lastly, which of the products so ascertained are
best adapted to the amount of capital and labour in
our command, and to the accessible markets.


do not say that we will read up to these subjects, and
concentrate the results in some future lectures, it is
because we have resolved to give no more written
promises, and our teams (we have just learned) are
broken down about 40 miles out of town, and we must
needs look after them. These abominable roads !
GAFFER GRAY.
MATHEMATICS.
No. XI.
It would swell this limited sketch beyond due hounds,
were we to dwell on the various eminent men who
enriched the science of Astronomy by their labors
about and after this period. We purpose therefore,
to pass over the honorable list till we arrive at the
name Copernicus, the great reformer of astronomical
science, whose system, bearing with it the seal of
truth, was subsequently received ; though when first
broached it met with the most violent and unfair
opposition, nor was it established till the time of
Galileo, whose first and greatest service to the science
was the invention of the telescope, though it is said that
not to him are we to attribute its discovery, but rather
to a man of the name of Jansen a spectacle maker in
Zealand; his children playing with some lenses
perceived an object near them enlarged and inverted,
and by their exclamations attracted the father’s at-
tention, Avho immediately fixed the glasses on a board
in an upright position ; and thus the first telescope
was invented and constructed.
Be this as it may, it Avas immediately improved
by Galileo, Avho fixed glasses into an old organ pipe,
and with the telescope so formed discovered to his
great delight four satellites of Jupiter, the lunar
mountains, the ring of Saturn,and the fact that Venus
exhibits different phases like the moon, which convinced
him of the absurdity of the earth’s stability. His
opinion was boldly expressed, but it was not a time in
Avhich a man could utter truth—based on Avhat argu-
ment soever Avhen it clashed with the dogmata of the
day. Galileo was summoned before the Inquisition,
and denounced from the altar, but his able defence at
Rome, (1615) silenced for a time his enemies; the
most bitter of Avhom Avere the Jesuits, because he had
connected himself Avith the party Avhich expelled them
from Padua. Though he had the aAvful terrors of
the church before his eyes, and Avas acutely aware of
its jealous exactness, yet (being thoroughly convinced
of the truth of his system) he could not rest till he
had endeavoured once more to remove the erroneous
opinion of the day. To avoid if possible the censures
of the church, he presented his work to the people in
the shape of a dialogue, unfortunately in it some
allusions Avere made to the then existing Pope’s
opinions, that functionary took offence and Avithdrew
his friendship and protection ; the consequences Avere
keenly felt by our astronomer, his enemies w 7 ere
not sloav in taking advantage of his defenceless posi-
tion, imperatively summoning him to answer for his
heresy before his fierce and bigoted oppressors, who
have in this instance as well as in every other exhibited
the heartless tyranny Avhich religious legislation some-
tnnes engenders “ persequi.” Galileo was at this
period seventy years old, and exceedingly debilitated
by reason of his infirmities, but what was this to that
dread body whose souls know no mercy, unless con-
nected with selfish aggrandisement. Age before them
was not honourable, infirmities were not regarded but
as instruments to work their diabolical will. Reader,
figure to your mind’s eye the court of the Inquisition
in gloomy grandeur ; all observing with piactised
blackness that poor infirm and venerable old man
whom their power has terrified into a kneeling posture :
hear his tremulous accents uttering the following ab-
juration.
“ I, Galileo, inthe seventieth yearof my age brought
personally to justice! being on my knees, and having
before my eyes the holy Evangelists, which I touch
with my own hands, with a sincere heart and faith,
abjure and curse the said errors and heresies (namely
the motion of the earth) —I swear that I will never
in future say, or assert anything, verbally or in
writing which may give rise to a similar suspicion
against me.
I, Galileo, have abjured as above with my own
hand.”
Now comes the farce—rising from his knees he
whispered to a friend “ E purse muove." It moves
for alj that.
As this extraordinary historical fact cannot fail to
interest the mind of every thinking individual, by
drawing a comparison between our present position,
and the darkness—the mental darkness that clouded
many a lofty genius of that day, we propose giving
one or two additional extracts from this remarkable
document of superstition and tyranny, of an attempt
to crush science in its bud, and cripple inquiry—
because a passage of the Old Testament happened to
be at variance with the doctrine broached, or rather
because that passage w r as construed in a wrong sense,
namely, literally, “ Then spake Joshua unto the
Lord—and he said in the sight of Israel, sun, stand
thou still upon Gibeon, and thou moon, in the valley
of Ajalon,” Josh. x. 12. It w r ould appear irrelevant
to enter minutely into this portion of the subject at
present, we propose, therefore, to return to the con-
sideration of the extracts alluded to, which are as
follows :
Ist. “ The proposition that the sun is the centre of
the world and immovable from its place, is absurd,
philosophically false, and formally heretical , because
it is expressly contrary to Holy Scripture.
2ndly. “The proposition that the earth is not the
centre of the world, nor immovable, but that it
moves, and also with a diurnal motion, is absurd,
philosophically false, and, theologically considered,
at least erroneous in faith.
“ We decree that the book of the dialogues of
Galileo be prohibited by edict ; we order you for the
next three weeks! to recite once aw^eek!! the seven pe-
nitentiary psalms !! !” which that august body deemed
sufficient to purify him from his alleged heresy. It
is also supposed that torture had been applied to
satisfy the poor old man, of the cogency of the Holy
Fathers' arguments—“ O tempora, O mores."
Brevity compels us to turn from the further con-
sideration of these highly interesting biographical
memoirs. As this is intended to be but a cursory
glance even at the outline of astronomical history, and
though the above is in excess of our original intention,
yet, we hope our readers will deem the matter suffi-
ciently interesting to carry with it its own apology.
The fifteenth century dignified the list of astro-
nomers in the person of William IV. of Hesse Cassel,
who applied himself diligently to the science ; and
having an excellent observatory, with the advantage


of good instruments, he determined the latitude of
four hundred stars. It was also patronised by Fre-
derick of Denmark, who became the friend of Tycho
Brahe, a Danish Astronomer, for whom an observa-
tory was erected at the entrance of the Baltic; this
celebrated philosopher added much to the science ;
thinking, however, that the Copernican system was
contrary to scripture, he endeavoured to establish
another, though the one he rejected was evidently
consonant with every phenomenon of nature ; and
though the one he endeavoured to establish, w r as not
by any means in accordance with that beautiful sim-
plicity so evidently manifest in all the works of
nature. Yet superstition so influenced his mind, as
to induce him to invent a laborious confusion in the
face of truth, as made evident by Galileo’s discovery
of the phases of Venus ; but his system met the fate
it deserved, falling as it were, unnoticed into oblivion,
and in spite of superstition and despoticpporer,w r er, the
truth prevailed, “ et prevalebit
Tycho’s system made Mercury and Venus to revolve
round the sun, as also Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn.
These he despatched round the world together with
the mass of fixed stars, the moon only went round the
earth, having no forward motion, thus silencing his
understanding to meet the religious views of the day.
To him succeeded Kepler (his pupil) who still
further advanced the science. Endowed with a
remarkable spirit of investigation, and the most unre-
mitting application, he succeeded in discovering the
three celebrated laws of planetary motion.
While making observations on the planet Mars, he
discovered that it described equal portions in equal
spaces. 2ndly. That its orbit was elliptical, one of
the foci of which was occupied by the sun ; and
finallv, after many years calculation, he ascertained
the ratio that exists between the revolution and the
distances of all the planets. Kepler stopped short
here, and left to Sir Isaac Newton the completion of
this intellectual work. T. L. D.
LOCAL NEWS.
Port Phillip Judgeship. —We are confident our readers
will hear with surprise that Mr. Therry, instead of going to
England, is going to Port Phillip, having; been appointed
Judge there, Mr. Justice Jeffcott having resigned Ins office.
We say with surprise, because even high officers heard it with
surprise, the appointment having, it is said, been made by his
Excellency the Governor without consulting those who are
usually consulted in such cases. Mr. William Macarthur is
canvassing the county of Camden, the representation of which
will be vacant by the appointment ot Mr. Therry, and will we
imagine be successful. It may he remembered that in the
debate unon Education, a few nights since, Mr Therry said
that that was the last time he should address the house on the
subject. — Herald, Dec. 14.
“An Address to those Jews who have renounced the
Talmud, and to the children of Israel in general. By one of
their brethren according to the flesh.’—This most excellent
little treatise, occupying only four pages, the production of a
Jewish proselyte, has been reprinted for distribution at this
office, by a few well-wishers to God’s ancient P e °P^ e - The
language is very affectionate and interesting, and O that it
may prove convincing to many members of that remarkable
nation, whose fate has hitherto been so extraordinary. Is
there not every reason to hope and believe that the tu filment.of
the more favorable prophecies concerning them is near at hand .
Civic Dinner.— The senior members of the City Council
gave a dinner to the newly elected members, at Petty s Hotel,
on Thursday evening last, at which, in addition to tae Mayor,
Aldermen, and Councillors of the city, andothersin ofiice
there were present the Police Magistrates, the Auditors and
Assessors, and Alderman Mortimer, of Melbourne.
Original Poetry.
LOVE AFTER DEATH.
“ There is a love that lives when youth is fled,
There is a love that lives when hope is dead ;
Unchanged by shame and sorrow, guilt and gloom,
True as the cypress to the silent tomb,
That would not change its tears for others mirth,
The memory of the dead for aught on earth.”
The Buccaneers.
There is one spot move dear to me
Than all the crowded world can show,
The grave beneath the linden tree,
Where thou, dear love 1 liest low ;
Why didst thou leave me thus to weep,
Why didst thou seek the battle-plain?
I thought not thou so soon shouldst sleep
Among the gallant slain.
We met at dawn —thy high white crest
Tossed lightly in the morning wind,
Thy heart was gay —but oh ! the breast
Of her thou left’st behind !
I looked upon thy knightly plume,
Thy manly bearing, proud and free,
flow could I think the grave’s dark gloom
Was made for such as thee ?
The clarion’s note pealed long and shrill,
And echoed loud the trumpet blast.
We parted —and 1 could not still
The dark fears o’er me cast.
I wearied for the close of day,
I saw the red sun fainter burn,
Rejoicing o’er each fading ray—
Thou wouldst at eve return.
Thou didst not come ; then all my fears
Seem’d but confirmed; peace, comfort, fled—
No more I struggled with my tears—
I knew that thou wert dead.
I went unto the battle-field,
Slowly I went, sad and alone,
Where chiefs, who but to death did yield,
Like leaves were round me strown.
I saw thee not —my heart beat fast,
And Hope’s false voice whisper’d again,
“ Surely not thus his spirit passed—
Not on the battle plain.”
Too soon I found thee; thou wcrt laid
With thy dead war-horse by thy side,
And thou, too, wert as stiff and dead,
Bathed in thy life-blood’s tide.
I press’d my lips to thy cold brow,
Cleft by a sabre fearfully,
Oh God ! how fair it was, and now
I shudder’d but to see !
Blood was upon thy waving plume,
Thy shiver’d sword, thy broken shield,
Thy life-blood stain’d thy fair cheek’s bloom,
On that fierce battle field.
And was there none to make a grave,
Unto the beautiful, the dead —
Not one above the sleeping brave
W arm, heartfelt tears to shed ?
Yes, tho ! my heart was broken, still
'Twas all thine own, my young and brave !
It could not bear thy form should fill
A lowly, nameless grave.
I bore thee to a lonely place,
And to my wildly throbbing heart
I clasp’d thee in a long embrace,
As if we should not part.
Then dug I mournfully a grave
For thee, the worshipped of my breast;
I breathed my farewell to the brave,
And left thee to thy rest!
HELEN.


SUMMER’S RETURN.
O beauteous land ! whose fertile clime,
Bright as the rosy morn of time,
Returns afresh to glad our eyes,
And cheer our hearts with summer skies,
Rejoice ! and hail returnio- day,
For nature’s night has passed away ;
Receding winter’s footsteps fly,
And whisp’ring zephyrs gently sigh ;
Borne on the breeze, the morn apace,
In glowing summer’s cheerful face,
Bursts o’er the land, while nature’s voice,
And all creation’s works rejoice.
The gladsome birds in golden plume,
Their joyous melody resume ;
And every sparkling eye and heart,
Where Cupid’s bow has thrown a dart;
In sylvan bowers, and myrtle shades,
Where lovers plait their raven braids,
In pleading sadness mourn their woes,
And pledge anew their golden vows :
Each tongue repeats the joyous song,
And echo’s voice the sounds prolong,
While hills and dales take up the theme,
With purling brook, and gurgling stream,
And verdant banks where rivers flow,
And flowers untutored learn to grow ;
And many a wide far spreading plain,
Unbounded as the ocean’s main,
Where cattle browse, and fleecy sheep,
And lambs, and lambkins gently bleat;
Where shepherds wander all the day,
Like belted knights of romance lay,
Who pilgrimaged in fairy land,
Transplanted thither at command
Of some grey hag whose path he cross’d,
Or in the tournament, unhorsed,
Must speed his way to distant land,
To fight and gain his lady’s hand.
Free as the winds sweep o’er the plait*,
So wanders forth the shepherd swain ;
No anxious thoughts disturb his breast,
No faithless mistress mars his rest;
But all in peace each scene he views,
And all his fair ones are his ewes ;
He sees them safely home, and when
Securely lodged within the pen,
No serenade disturbs his head,
But takes him to his rustic bed ;
In silent slumber sinks his care,
Nor dreams of rivals unaware,
To rob him of affection’s due
In ev’ry lamb, and every ewe.
When morning light reveals the sky,
His peaceful slumbers quickly fly,
And from his lowly pallet drawn,
He hastes to meet the rising dawn.
His charge now issuing from the fold,
While ev’ry head is truly told,
Soon spread their numbers far and wide,
On every dale and hillock side:
The Shepherd takes his day’s repast,
And slowly moves behind the last;
Then seats him down beneath the shade
Of some tall oak on op’ning glade ;
From thence afar his flocks are seen,
Grazing on heath or mountain green,
While all with looks their joy display,
The ewes to bask, the lambs to play !
High in the heavens, the orb of light
Shoots down his rays with giant might;
And nature all in golden blaze,
In grateful voice her accents raise ;
The shepherd tunes his cheerful song,
The feathered tribe the notes prolong ;
The Muses too, in pleasing rhyme,
Hail happy days of summer time !
H.
The Country Brewer. — He comes over night to see to
the sticks and coal; and just tastes how the old ale is, and
pronounces it capital. He takes a crust and a half-pint or so,
to recruit his strength against the next day’s work. He looks
out his candles and sees whether the malt be ready ground,
and in the right place. If a careful man, he also fills his
copper. He is generally a man of great fore-knowledge—
anticipating over-night that he shall want something to eat
before breakfast in the morning. He, therefore, takes a store
of provisions and a bottle of the old ale, with the key of the
brew-house, to be in readiness. The morning’s work com-
mences at two, and by the time you have arisen, he has washed
down the malt in your vessel, and the eating and drinking in
his own .' and is now ready for breakfast. After breakfast he
lets off the wort, of which he tastes, to see how it is ; and takes
another pint of the old before luncheon, At luncheon he takes
some cold meat and a little more of the old, and another pint
between that time and dinner. Before dinner he inquires
about the hops, and always advises you to have the highest in
price. He generally gathers a short quantity—because (as he
says) too much water spoils the .beer. At dinner time the
beer is ready to boil, and you are all in the fidgets lest he
should let the copper boil over whilst trying another pint of
the old. He has another at four o’clock, and another or two
at supper. The new beer having been set a working for the
night, the next morning early the brewer is with you again to
see that all is right; when he will call in two of his cronies,
Jack Drinkwater and Tom Hatemalt, to help him taste of
the new. He will then ask for another pint of the old, and
prepares for tunning, tasting of the new all the time, whilst
you ejaculate to yourself inwardly, “ I wonder how he finds
room for both old and new.” A few days elapse, when ha
calls again to “ hop down,” and he takes his fee with another
drop of the old, drinking your health at the same time, and
wishing (you have no doubt conscientiously) that the new beer
may be no worse than the old.
A Guilty Conscience.— When Dr. Donne, afterward*
dean of St. Paul’s, took possession of his first living, as ho
walked into the churchyard, he took up a skull thrown by the
sexton out of a grave, and in it he found a small headless nail,
which he drew out secretly, and wrapt it up in the corner of
his handkerchief. He then asked the grave-digger if he knew
whose the skull was ? He replied, that it was the skull of a
person who had kept a spirit-shop, and who, having gone to
bed intoxicated, was found dead in his bed in the morning.
“ Had he a wife ?” asked the doctor. “Yes.” “What cha-
racter does she bear?” “Avery good one; only the neigh-
bours reflect on her, because she married the day after her
husband’s burial.” A few days afterwards the doctor paid her
a visit, as if by accident; asked her some questions; and at
last of what sickness her former husband had died. As she
was telling him the same story as the sexton, he opened his
handkerchief, and cried out in an authoritative voice,
“ Woman, do you know this nail?” Struck with horror, she
confessed the murder.
COMMERCIAL REVIEW.
With the exception of a large sale of bonded goods, (spirits
and tobacco,) the amount of commercial transactions during
the week has been very moderate, in the absence of all specu-
lation, sales are confined to actual requirements, and business
is unusually dull for this season of the year.
The prices of most goods remain the same as former
quotations.
B. S. LLOYD
Commission Agent, Bridge-street.
December 18 th, 1844.
Jftarriagc.
On the 11th instant, at St. John’s Church, Parramatta, by
the Rev. R. Forrest, M.A., Rector of Camden, William,
third son of the late Captain William Lumsdaine, of the 9th
Bengal Light Cavalry, to Mary, second daughter of Edward
Hunt, Esq., Newlands, Parramatta,
©eatf)S.
On the 13th July last, at her residence, Bole Hall, near
Tamworth, in England, Mary Ann Stretton Smith, relict of
John Smith, Esq., late of Grove Vale, Great Barr Stafford-
shire, and mother of Mr. John Smith, solicitor of, this city.
On the 12th instant, at his residence, York-street, Mr.
Joseph Nobbs, in the 90th year of his age, after a residence in
this colony of 43 years, and much respected by a large circle
of friends. He contributed largely to the Benevolent Asylum
from its commencement, and left a legacy of £lOO to the same
institution.
On the 13th instant, after a few hours illness, Mary, eldest
daughter of the Rev. Dr. Lang, aged three years.


Shipping Enttlltgence.
ARRIVALS.
December 11.-—The schooner Jane, Captain Steele, from
Moreton Bay the 7th instant, with cedar.
December 12. —The schooner Vanguard, Captain Pilfold,
from Port Nicholson the 27th ultimo.
December 12 —The brig Triton, 160 tons, Captain Brown-
ing, from the Manning, with timber.
December 13.—The steamer William the Fourth, 53 tons,
Captain Wiseman, from the Clarence River, the 11th instant.
December 14.'—The schooner Engle, 108 tons, Captain
Hodges, from Circular Head, the 7th instant.
December 14. —The barque Sarah Scott, 382 tons, Captain
Bain, from the Downs the 2nd, and Portsmouth the 9th August,
with a general cargo.
- December 15.—The brig Emma, 121 tons, Captain Fox,
from Adelaide tbe Ist instant.
December 15.—The schooner Edward, 87 tons, Captain
Tallan, from Boyd Town, Twofold Bay, the 14th instant with
wool, &c.
December 17. —The schooner Waterlily, 155 tons, Captain
Hayle, from Hobart Town, the 11th instant.
DEPARTURES.
December 10.—The ship Potomac, 356 tons, Captain Hus-
sey, for the Whale Fishery, with stores and original cargo.
December 12.—The cutter Jane and Emma, 32 ton*,
Captain Irvine, for Launceston, with part of original cargo.
December 13. —The steamer Shamrock, Captain Gilmore,
For Port Phillip and Launceston.
December 13.—The brig Tryphena, Captain llindmarsh,for
Auckland.
December 13.—The schooner Marian Watson, Captain
Wells, for Guam.
December 15.—The schooner Star of China, Captain Tinley,
for Port Nicholson and Port Nelson.
December 15.—The barque Lady Blackwood, Captain
Cooper, for the Whale Fishery.
December 15.—The schooner Minerva, Captain Gatenby,
for Calcutta.
December 15.—The schooner Terror, Captain Dunning, for
Auckland.
December 16.—The steamer James Watt, Captain Taggart,
for Hobart Town via Wollongong.
December 17. —The schooner Lady Leigh, Captain Reid,
for Port Nicholson and Nelson.
December 17. —The brig Hind, Captain Preston, for London.
December 17. —The schooner Jane, Captain Steele, for
Moreton Bay.
CFolontal Httcvarj) journal,
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
11HE TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION to this Journal
are, Three Shillings per Quarter, in Town ; Country,
Three Shillings and Sixpence ; payable, in every case,
in advance.
Terms for Advertisements :—For one inch, and under,
Three Shillings; and One Shilling for every additional inch,
each insertion. Advertisements will be received until Two
o’Clock on Wednesday afternoon; but cannot be withdrawn
later than Nine o’Clock on Wednesday morning. Adver-
tisements must specify on the face of them the number of
times they are to be inserted, or they will be continued till
countermanded, and charged accordingly.
All communications must be addressed to “The Editor of
the Colonial Literary Journal, General Printing Office, 316,
Pitt-street,” (post paid.)
co I.oloax, literary joitrstaz,.
BINDING.
THE Publishers have been requested by several subscribers
to make arrangements for the binding of the first Vol.
of the Colonial Literary Journal, which will be completed with
the Twenty-seventh Number. Subscribers are informed that
the Publishers will be ready to receive copies to be bound to
order, by which, from the number already engaged for, a con-
siderable saving will be effected to each individual.
COLOURED DAGUERREOTYPES !! *
49, HUWTSS2, ST3ISST,
fTwo doors from O' Comiell-street.)
MR. G. B. GOODMAN has great pleasure to announce
to the public, that he has just received from the
Patentee in England, the new process, lately discovered, of
colouring the Daguerreotype Portraits, and having already
executed some very beautiful likenesses in this style, he will
be happy to submit them to the inspection of those who will
favour him with a visit.
It may be as well for general information to observe, that
these Portraits are taken almost instantaneously, and produce
as faithful a representation of the face and figure as is pre-
sented by standing opposite a mirror, being in fact the reflec-
tion itself fixed permanently in the glass or polished surface,
thus producing in effect a “ Second Self ?’
The pictures effected by this art are superior to the finest
engravings for delicacy of shadowing and minuteness of
delineation, and have hitherto only wanted colour to make
them perfect, which grand desideratum has been at length
achieved, and Mr. G. B. Goodman hastens to apprise the
public of this most important addition.
On account of the depression of the times the price will
still be limited to one guinea for the coloured likeness, includ-
ing a handsome gilt and morocco case.
Specimens to be seen at Mr. Isaac Levey’s, Draper, George-
street, and Mr. Aldis’s, Tobacconist; the Bank of Australia;
and at the Photographic Gallery, 49, Hunter-street.
Sydney, November 25.
GEIffESSiLS, FEINTING OFFICE,
No. 316, Pitt Street, Sydney.
HE above Office having been removed from 133, King’
_L street, to those commodious premises, No. 316, PITT
STREET, f opposite Mr. Foss’ Drug arid Grocery Establishment)
arrangements are completed for the quick and accurate per-
formance of Book Work and Job PRINTING, in all its
branches, and to any extent.
J. Reading respectfully solicits a continuance of those
favours which have been extended to him during the last four
vears.
ZaETSiSiUrST JOUSML.
SIXPENCE each will be given for clean Copies of the
h IRST NUMBER of the Colonial Literary Journal.
Apply at the Office, 316, Pitt-street.
WANTED, a Situation as Gardener, or a Garden, in the
vicinity of Sydney, by a professed and experienced
Gardener. Apply at this Office.
TO SET.
APARTMENTS suitable for Offices, together with Stable
and Gig House, if required, situate in a central part of
Pitt-street, near King-street, for particulars apply at the Office
of this Journal.
November 6th, 1844.
Colonial literary Journal.
Collector for Sydney Mr. Francis Wye.
Our Subscribers are requested to observe that the Quarterly Sub-
scription to the Journal is made payable in advance. The
present heavy expenses require this. Those therefore who have
omitted to pay their last quarter's subscription, together with the
present one in advance, are requested to forward the same to the
nearest Agent at their earliest convenience.
Agents for this Journal.
Sydney, Mr. W. Jones, Circulating Library, Brickfield-hill.
Parramatta Mr. Hugh Taylor.
Windsor Mr. Walker.
Bathurst Mr. Tress.
West Maitland Mr. Galloway,’
Camden, Campbelltown, Penrith, and
Liverpool Mr. C. Lester.
Gunning Mr. Hawthorne.
