

COLONIAL LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
“ NON TUA TE MOVEANT, SED PUBLICA VOTA.”
Vol. 11. No. 30.]
SYDNEY, THURSDAY, JANUARY 16, 1845.
[Price 4d.
THE WHEEL OF TIME.
CONCLUDING REMARKS ON THE NECESSITY OF ITS IM-
PROVEMENT, AS REGARDS THE PAST, THE PRESENT,
AND THE FUTURE.
Time is that on which eternity depends. The very
importance of time, therefore, proves that we ought
to neglect no means of turning it to good account.
Time is the most precious thing in the w r orld ; for
“ God, who giveth plenteously to all creatures, in the
distribution of our time seems to be strait-handed; and
gives it to us —not as nature gives us rivers, enough
to drown us, —but drop by drop, moment after
moment ; so that we never can have two moments
together, but he takes away one when he gives us
another.” The first has disappeared before its suc-
cessor is within our grasp : and whether it will please
him to give or retain the next, is beyond our know-
ledge. Yet, how is the value of time increased in the
judgment of every thinking person, when he views it
in all its circumstances, and reflects seriously and with
attention, how short time time is ; how rapid in its
course ; and, at the same time, how uncertain it is ;
how irrevocable ; how much our eternal happiness or
misery depends upon the right use or misuse of time;
and what an account we shall have to give of it !
But do we reflect on these things seriously and with
attention ? for these truths, obvious and self-evident
as they are, so that no one can be ignorant of them,
yet seem scarcely ever felt, or to make any suitable j
impression upon the greater part of mankind. In j
order then, that w T e may form a right estimate of the]
value of time, let us examine each of these reasons
for its closer consideration and improvement.
The shortness of life, and the narrow limits within
which it is confined, are the theme of universal com-
plaint. Ask the man of letters and of science on this
subject, and he will tell you that it is so difficult to
attain to distinguished eminence in knowledge or in
the sciences, that the life of man is too short to enable
hm fully to explore them. Ask the man of the
world, and he will tell you that so much time is abso-
lutely necessary in order to make even a moderate
fortune, that very little remains for the enjoyment of
it. . And ask the aged man bending beneath the
weight of years, who has beheld successive genera-
tions pass away before him, and he will tell you, that
that time which to your imagination seems to be so
long, has disappeared like a dream ; and that the life
of man, considered in its utmost length, is but an un-
substantial vapour, that vanisheth almost ere it be
formed. But, not to dwell upon the confessions of
others, let us consider the measure of our days simply
as it is in itself, and relatively to ourselves. And if
from the longest life we deduct the years of helpless
infancy ; all those hours which human infirmity con-
strains us to pass in sleep, and which run away with
the third part of our existence ; the time spent in in-
decision and inaction ; the time spent in preparation
and design ; the time spent in travelling ; the time
necessarily devoted to the care of our health ; —after
all these deductions, what does there remain of life
properly so called ? Alas ! the longest life is but an
hand-breadth ; and threescore years’ abode'in this
world is reduced to an actual and real existence of
about twenty years.
But short as is the space of time allotted to us in
this life, the rapidity with which that space flies seems
to render it still shorter ; and the images of quicker
than lightning, sound, aud thought, in common use
among writers in order to denote the swiftness of its
course, are no longer metaphors, but literal and faith-
ful expressions, when applied to time. Hours, days,
months, and years, fly away with astonishing rapidity.
Youth, the spring time of life, from the novelty,
multitude, and variety of its objects which engage
attention, marks (so to speak) the moments, and seems
to slacken their course. It passes away, however,
like a flow r er that fades before the blighting wind.
It lasts but for a day ; and, notwithstanding the
fruitless efforts made to prolong its duration, youth
soon gives place to mature age, when other engage-
ments and pursuits, more equal and more regular, im-
part a more uniform course to our years, and confound
them, as it were, together, until old age at length
arrives, which being deprived of all those passions,
interests, and impressions, that form an era in our
lives, old age no longer distinguishes the fleeting
moments, but sees them succeed and destroy one
another with the rapidity of a resistless torrent.
Time flies, however, not only with rapidly, but no
one can be sure of enjoying it. Its uncertainty
equals its rapidity ; nor can any one, without being
guilty of unpardonable temerity, promise himself any
future time. We are surrounded by so many dan-
gers, that life seems to subsist only by a perpetual
miracle ; our bodies are so fearfully and wonderfully
made, that the least accident is capable of deranging
and destroying them ; so that we can promise our-
selves nothing certain. Experience also convinces us
of the uncertainty of time. We daily see falling
around us the young and the old, the strong and the
weak, the rich and the poor, the noble and the beg-
gar. Nothing can ransom us from death ; it is an
enemy with whom we can make no covenant. Who,


then, can be too solicitous rightly to employ time
present, when no dependence can be placed upon
time future, either for its arrival, or for its being duly
improved ?
Another characteristic of time, which must be con-
nected with its rapid flight and uncertainty, and which
ought to make us attach the highest value to it, is
this, —time, once past, is irrevocable ; once gone, it
is gone for ever. Wealth, ordinarily at least, may be
acquired by honest industry ; knowledge, by long
and patient study ; reputation, sometimes by merit;
and honour and station, either by talents, by integrity,
by intrigue, or by favour. Time, and time alone, is
beyond our grasp ; and the very moment that has but
just escaped from us, is as irrevocable, and as far
distant from each of us, as that in which the Almighty
Creator spoke the universe into existence.
The ancients very significantly represented time by
the figure of a young man running at full speed,
having a lock of hair on his forehead, in order to
denote that it must be seized as it approaches, (whence
the proverbial expression so common among us, of
“ taking time by the forelock”) : but behind he was
quite bald, to intimate that when time is once gone
by, there is no possibility of seizing and detaining it.
This beautiful and apposite emblem may suggest to
all who are in the spring-time of life, an additional
motive for the improvement of time, so increasingly
precious to them at every advancing period.
The elucidation of the two remaining reasons for
the reparation and improvement of time, namely, its
momentous influence on our eternal destiny , and the
certainty that we must one day give an account of it,
is more especially the province of the divine ; and we
shall only call to remembrance that “ the present state
of man is probationary in its nature, and decisive in
its influence upon our eternal destiny that “itis in
time that the character is formed for eternity that
hours have wings, and carry up to the Author of time,
news of our usage of them ; and that all our prayers
cannot entreat one of them either to return or to
slacken its pace.
Such, then, are the reasons why -we should en-
deavour to recover the past, more carefully manage
the present, and anticipate the future ; or, in short, to
redeem time present, past, or future —namely, because
it is short, and flies with resistless rapidity ; because
it is uncertain, and, when once gone, is irrevocable ;
because time has a momentous influence on our
eternal destiny ; and because we must one day give
an account of it.
Since, we now see, nothing is more precious to us
than time, or more important to us than to make a
right use of it, how lamentable is it that so much time
is lost for want of due solicitude to redeem it! How
much time is lost in vain and frivolous pursuits ! How
much time is lost in idle visiting and gossip, in need-
less decoration of the person, and in pursuits which
dissipate the mind, and render it unfit to resume the
proper duties of life ! to say nothing of the time which
is lost by too many in sinful or criminal pursuits.
Another year has but lately closed upon us, and il
is a considerable space in our lives. What use have
we made of it ? If, on reviewing the past, we find
that we have lost our precious gift of time, let us
recover it by redoubling our efforts, in order that,
during the time yet afforded us, we may do what we
ought to have done in time past. Let us avail our-
selves of the opportunities afforded us in the time
present, and, instead of postponing anything to a
future day, let us now do what we can for the time to
come. Let us hope that the young, who have lost
comparatively but little time, may understand its vast
importance for their present and futuie happiness;
that those who are already in the midst of their
career, and have lost much time, may apply their best
energies to its improvement; and that those who are
drawing near.to the end of their days, and who have
lost the better part of their life, may be led by sincere
regret for the past, to devote the remainder of their
days to the consideration of, and preparation for, that
eternity, which they, in common with all of us, though
more peculiarly, must be fast approaching.
Biography.
SIR ASTLEY COOPER.
[concluded.]
About this time he established himself as a regular prac-
titioner, by succeeding Mr. Cline ; who, following the march
of fashion, removed from his old quarters in St. Mary Axe, in
the heart of the city of London, to a more aristocratic neigh-
bourhood at the “ West End.” Amidst the affluent merchants
of the most opulent city of the world, Astley Cooper laid the
foundation of that large fortune which he enjoyed in after life.
The fees he occasionally received were enormous. One old
gentleman, who, after a dangerous illness, was pronounced
convalescent, tossed his nightcap to the surgeon, who put it
in his pocket. On examining it afterwards, he found pinned
inside a bank-note for £lOOO. Another citizen-patient gave
him regularly every Christmas, for many years, the sum of
£600.* During the last year of his residence in the city, 1815,
when he followed the example of his predecessor, and re-
moved to the West End, he received for his own personal
exertions £21,000, making for each day’s average more than
£57 ! sums which have been stated by a competent authority
to be unprecedented in the annals of professional success,
whether in law or physic. But his exertions were equally
unprecedented. Throughout the whole thoroughly active
period of his life, Astley Cooper was in the dissecting room
(over his own stables in St. Mary Axe) every morning by six
o’clock; by eight he was dressed for the day, and occupied in
giving advice gratis to the poor till half-past nine ; a most
amiable trait in many eminent physicians, “whose every
minute’s a guinea.” His breakfast with his family occupied
a few gay minutes, and by ten his waiting-rooms were thronged
with patients, who continued to stream in till one o’clock, but
from whose clamours at that hour he was often obliged to
escape by the back-door, and meet his carriage in another
street. “He was, in a few minutes, at Guy’s, where a hun-
dred pupils waited on the steps. They followed him into the
wards of the hospital, and from bed to bed, until the clock
struck two; he then rushed across the street to the anatomical
theatre, and the lecture began. At three he went to the dis-
secting-rooms, where observation, direction, and instruction,
kept him busy for half an hour. He next got into his car-
riage, attended by a dresser, and his horses were hard at
work until seven or half-past seven. By this time his family
were assembled ; dinner was instantly on the table, and he sat
down apparently fresh in spirits, with his attention quite at
the command of the circle. He ate largely, but cared not
what. After twelve hours of such exertion, he, as he said,
«could digest anything but sawdust.’ During dinner he drank
* We believe the handsomest fee on record is that which
Dr. Dimsdale, of Hertford received from the Empress Cathe-
rine for inoculating her children. He had £12,000, it is
said, besides a snuff-box,.and the rank of a Russian baron.


two or three large tumblers 9f water, and afterwards two
glasses of port—no more. Then he threw himself back in his
chair and slept. He seldom required to be roused, but awoke
exactly as the allotted ten minutes expired, started up, * gave a
parting smile to everybody in the room, and in a few seconds
was again on his way to the hospital.’ There was a lecture
every other evening during the season. On the odd nights,
however, the carriage was equally at his door by eight, and he
continued his round of visits till midnight, often till one or
two in the morning. His carriage was well lighted; and by
night, as well as by day, in passing from one house to another,
his attendant was writing to his dictation—the chronicle of
each case kept pace with the symptoms—
‘ And Sunday shone no Sabbath-day for him.’ ”
These superhuman exertions continued almost unremit-
tingly for fifteen years ; not only in the city, but in New-
street, Spring Gardens, whither he afterwards removed. At
length Astley Cooper’s celebrity procured for him the con-
fidence of royalty, and he was commanded to operate upon
a tumour in the head of George IV. This command was,
with the assistance of his former master, Mr. Cline, so well
obeyed, that he was appointed sergeant-surgeon, and after-
wards created a baronet. He continued in constant attend-
ance on his Majesty, till on one occasion he committed himself
to some unlucky exuberance of jocularity, and lost favour; but
he still held his office of sergeant-surgeon; in which he was
continued during the reign of William IV., whom he fre-
quently attended.
Having reached the highest pinnacle of his profession, Sir
Astley Cooper made a sort of partial retirement, by spending
about three days of each week at an extensive estate In Hert-
fordshire, which he had recently purchased. Though his
ruling passion was for his profession, yet he also loved money,
and contrived to indulge both propensities at once at his
country seat in a curious manner. He kept a large farm in
his own hands, and turned it to profitable account, not by any
skill in agriculture, but by his proficiency in anatomy and
surgery! This may seem strange, but is’nevertheless true.
His coachman' was an excellent judge of horses, and was
employed by Sir Astley to purchase crippled nags in Smith-
field market. His instructions were to buy all that were
young, and not incurable, but never to give more than seven
pounds for each, and as much less as possible. It often hap-
pened that from thirty to forty disabled horses were thus
collected at Farm, and regularly converted into patients by
their owner. Surgical skill and good feeding, with careful
treatment during convalescence, soon brought them round,
and increased their value several hundred per cent. “ I have
myself,” says Mr. Bransby Cooper, “paid fifty guineas for one
of these animals, and made a good bargain too; and I have
known my uncle’s carriage for years drawn by a pair of horses
which together only cost him twelve pounds ten shillings.”
His love of anatomical investigation was indomitable. ° In
his shooting excursions, he frequently interrupted the sport
by dissecting under the nearest hedge a bird or a hare which
evinced some peculiarity either of action or structure. His
own notes, which were made late in life while visiting the sea-
coast of Norfolk, are full of such passages as these:—“ Rose
early, and dissected eels;” “ Dissected a gurnet;” “ Dissected
dog-fish and herring’s brains “ They sent me a porpoise; I
sent the heart to Guy’s hospital.”
Sir Astley had the misfortune to lose his wife in June,
1827, and the shock was so severe, that he resolved on with-
drawing from practice. In September he sold his house in
Spring Gardens, and remained for a time shut up in Hert-
fordshire; but the interval was not long. The retirement
became intolerable; within a few months he had taken another
house in town, and resumed bis profession ; and in July 1828
he re-married.
After this he again visited Paris, where his reception was
highly flattering. He was made a member of the Institute of
France, and invited to a grand breakfast by the eminent
French surgeon Dupuytren, who prefaced the meal by taking
his visitor to the Hotel Dieu, or hospital, where, writes Sir
Astley, “ I found a room devoted entirely to myself, a cadavre
(human subject) there. I dissected for two hours before
breakfast.” This delicate mark of esteem from one scientific
friend to another, can only be appreciated by enthusiastic
anatomists.”
On his return to England, Sir Astley found that a life of
ease and inaction were perfectly unendurable after the habits
of excessive activity he had for so many years persevered in.
He therefore continued in full practice, though far advanced
in life, and subject to occasional attacks of vertigo. At length
increasing infirmities completely disabled him° and after a
short confinement, he expired at his country-seat on the 12th
of February, 1840, in the 73rd year of his age.
Sir Astley Cooper possessed a handsome person, a hearty
rather than elegant address, and- manners somewhat more
disposed towards gaiety than to the gravity usually sought for
in a ‘ court physician.” The presence of mind which in boy-
hood probably saved his foster-brother’s life, never deserted
him throughout his career; during the most trying and in-
tricate operations, his nerve never gave way; hence in manual
dexterity he was unsurpassed. His literary acquirements
were few, and his lectures were consequently but little orna-
mented by graces of language, but his style was familiar and
agreeable. His capabilities as a surgical teacher may bs
estimated from the boast he was wont to make in his latter
days, that he had in his time instructed 8000 surgeons. The
names of some of these are now in the foremost rank of
medical science. He left a very large fortune, his title de-
scending to his eldest nephew.
AMIABLENESS SUPERIOR TO INTELLECT.
BY LEIGH HUNT.
It is Sir Walter Scott, we believe, who has observed
somewhere, that men of superior endowments, or other
advantages, are accustomed to pay too little regard to
the intercourse of their less gifted fellow-creatures,
and to regret all the time that is passed in their com-
pany. He says, they accustom themselves so much
to the living upon sweets and spices, that they lose a
proper relish for ordinary food, and grow contemptuous
of those who live upon it, to the injury of their own
enjoyment. They keep their palate in a constant state of
thirst and irritation, rather than of healthy satisfaction.
And we recollect Mr. Hazlitt making a remark to a
similar effect, namely, that the being accustomed to
the society of men of genius renders the conversation
of others tiresome, as consisting of a parcel of things
that have been heard a thousand times, and from which
no stimulus is to be obtained. He lamented this, as
an effect unbecoming a reflecting man and. a fellow-
creature (for though irritable, and sometimes resentful,
his heart was large and full of humanity); and the
consequence was, that nobody paid greater attention
than he to common conversation, or showed greater
respect towards any endeavours to interest him, how-
ever trite. Youths of his acquaintance are fond of
calling to mind the footing of equality on which he
treated them, even when children, gravely interchanc-
ing remarks with them, as he sat side by side, like one
grown person with another, and giving them now
and then (though without the pomp) a Johnsonian
“Sir-” T he serious earnestness of his “Indeed,
mum ! with lifted eyebrows, and protruded lips,


while listening to the surprising things told him by
good housewives about their shopping or their pre-
serves, is now sounding in our ears ; and makes us
long to see again the splenetic but kindly philosopher,
who worried himself to death about the good of the
nation.
There is but one thing necessary to put any re-
flecting person at his ease with the common place ;
and that is, their own cheerfulness and good humour.
To be able to be displeased, in spite of this, is to be
insensible to the best results of wisdom itself. When
all the Miss Smiths meet the Miss Joneses, and there
is nothing but a world of smiles and recognitions, and
gay breath, and loud askings after this person and that,
and comparisons of bonnets and cloaks, and “so
glads !” and “so sorrys !” and rosy cheeks, or more
lovely good-natured lips, who that has any good hu-
mour of his own, or power to extract a pleasant
thought from pleasant things, desires wit or genius in
this full-blown exhibition of comfortable humanity ?
He might as well be sullen at not finding wit or genius
in a cart full of flowers going along the street, or in
the spring cry of “ Primroses.”
A total want of ideas in a companion, or of the
power to receive them, is indeed to be avoided by men
who require intellectual excitement; but it is a great
mistake to suppose that the most discerning men de-
mand intellect above every thing else in their most
habitual associates, much less in general intercourse.
Happy would they be to see intellect more universally
extended, but as a means, not as an end, —as a help to the
knowledge of what is amiable, and not what is merely
knowing. Clever men are sometimes said even to be
jealous of clever companions, especially female ones.
Men of genius, it is notorious, for a very different rea-
son, and out of their own imagination of what is ex-
cellent, and their power to adorn what they love,
will be enamoured, in their youth, of women neither
intelligent, nor amiable, nor handsome. They make
them all three, with their fancy; and are sometimes
too apt, in after-life, to resent what is nobody’s fault
but their own. However, their faults have their ex-
cuses, as well as those of other men ; only they who
know most, should excuse most. But the reader may
take our word for it, from the experience of long
intercourse with such men, that what they value
above every other consideration, in a companion,
female or male, is amiableness; that is to say,
evenness of temper, and the willingness (general
as well as particular) to please and be pleased, without
egotism and without exaction. This is what we
have ever felt to be the highest thing in themselves,
and what gave us a preference for them,infinite, above
others of their own class of power. We know of
nothing capable of standing by the side of it, or of
supplying its place, but one ; and that is, a deep
interest in the welfare of mankind. The possession of
this will sometimes render the very want of amiable-
ness touching, because it seems to arise from the reverse
of what is unamiable and selfish, and to be exas-
perated, not because itself is unhappy, but because
others are so. It was this, far more than his in-
tellectual endowments (great as they were), which
made us like Mr. Hazlitt. Many a contest has it
saved us with him, many a sharp answer, and interval
of alienation ; and often perhaps, did he attribute to
an apprehension of his formidable powers (for which,
in our animal spirits, we did not care twopence) what
was entirely owing to our love of the sweet drop at
the bottom of his heart. But only imagine a man,
who should feel this interest too, and be deeply
amiable, and have great sufferings, bodily and mental,
and know his own errors, and waive the claims of his
own virtues, and manifest an unceasing considerate-
ness for the comfort of those about him, in the very
least as well as greatest things, surviving, in the pure
life of his heart, all mistake, all misconception, all
exasperation, and ever having a soft word in his
extremity, not only for those who consoled, but for
those who distressed him; and imagine how we must
have loved him ! It was Mr. Shelley. His genius,
transcendant as it was, would not have bound us to
him ; his poetry, his tragedy, his philosophy, would
not have bound us ; no, not even his generosity, had
it been less amiable. It was his unbounded heart, and
his ever kind speech. Now observe, pray, dear reader,
that what was most delightful in such a man as this,
is most delightful, in its degree, in all others; and
that people are loved, not in proportion to their intellect,
but in proportion to their love-ability. Intellectual
powers are the leaders of the world, but only for the
purpose of guiding them into the promised land of
peace and amiableness, or of showing them encou-
raging pictures of it by the way. They are no more
the things to ljve with, or repose with, apart from
qualities of the heart and temper, than the means are
without the end ; or than a guide to a pleasant spot is
to be taken for the spot itself, with its trees, health,
and quiet.
It has been truly said, that knowledge is of
the head, but wisdom is of the heart; that is,
you may know a great many things, but turn
them to no good account of life and intercourse,
without a certain harmony of nature often pos-
sessed by those whose knowledge is little or nothing.
Many a man is to be found, who knows what
amiableness is, without being amiable ; and many
an amiable man, who would be put to the blush if you
expected of him a knowing definition of amiableness.
But there are a great many people held to be very
knowing, and entertaining the opinion themselves,
who, intact, are only led by that opinion to think they
may dispense with being amiable, and who in so
thinking confute their pretensions to knowingness.
The truth is, that knowledge is by no means so com-
mon a thing as people suppose it; while luckily, on
the other hand, wisdom is much less uncommon;
for it has been held a proof of one of the greatest
instances of knowledge that ever existed, that it knew
how little it did know ! whereas every body is wise in
proportion as he is happy or patient; that is to say,
in proportion as he makes the best of good or bad
fortune.
History.
ANCIENT HISTORY: SECTION XXVI.
THE LAW OF VOLERO.
1. The disorders of the commonwealth, appeased by the
creation of the Tribunes, were but for a very short time
suspended. It was necessary that the popular magistrates
should make an experiment of their powers. In an assembly
of the people, one of the consuls, interrupted by a tribune,
rashly said, that had the tribunes convoked the assembly, he
would not have interrupted them, and therefore they ought
not to be interrupted. This was a concession on the part of
the consuls, that the tribunes had the power of assembling
the Comitia, a power which they themselves had never dreamt


of, but which from that moment they assumed as their
acknowledged right. It was a consequence of this right, that
the affairs of the commonwealth should be agitated in those
meetings, equally as in the assemblies held in virtue of a
consular summons, or senatorial decree, and thus there were,
in a manner, two distinct legislative powers established in
the republic.
2. The trial of Coriolanus for inconsiderately proposing the
abolition of the Tribunate, an offence interpreted to be treason
against the state, threw an additional weight into the scale of
the people. The proposal of an Agrarian law, for the division
of the lands acquired by recent conquests, resumed at inter-
vals, though never carried into execution, inflamed the passions
of the rival orders. '
3. Publius Volero, formerly a centurion, and a man dis-
tinguished for his military services, had, in the new levies,
been ranked as a common soldier. Complaining of this un-
merited degradation, he refused his services in that capacity :
and the consuls having condemned him to corporal punish-
ment, he appealed from their sentence to the people. The
contest lasted till the annual term of elections, when Volero
himself was chosen a tribune of the people. He had an
ample revenge, by procuring the enactment of a most im-
portant law. The Comitia, by centuries and by curiae, could
not be called but in virtue of a decree of the senate, after
consulting the auspices ; and in those comitia the tribunes
had hitherto been elected, and the most important public
affairs discussed. It was decreed by the law of Volero, that
the election of the tribunes should be made, .and all questions
in which the affairs of the people were agitated, should hence-
forward be discussed in the comitia held by tribes, which were
unfettered by any of those restraints. The senate opposed
the passing of a law so fatal to their power, but their oppo-
sition was ineffectual. From this period the supreme autho-
rity in the Roman republic may be considered as having
passed completely from the higher order into the hands of the
people. The Roman constitution was now plainly a de-
mocracy, 471 b. c.
SECTION XXVII. —THE DECEMVIRATE.
1. The Romans had, till this period, no body of civil laws.
Under the regal government the kings alone administered
justice ; the consuls succeeded them in this high prerogative ;
and thus possessed without control the absolute command of
the fortunes and ci il rights of all the citizens. To remedy
this great defect, Terentillus, a tribune, proposed the nomi-
nation of ten commissioners, to frame and digest a code of
laws for the explanation and security of the rights of all
orders of the state. A measure so equitable ought to have
met with no opposition. It was, however, strenuously though
ineffectually opposed by the patricians, who, by a fruitless
contest, only exposed their own weakness. The ten com-
missioners, or decemviri , were chosen ; but the election being
made in the Comitia by centuries, the consul Appius Claudius,
and his colleague Titus Genacius, were at the head of this
important commission, and the other eight were also senators
and consular persons. The laws were framed, those cele-
brated statutes known by the name of the Twelve Tables,
which are the basis of the great structure of the Roman juris-
prudence, 451 b. c.
2. An acquaintance with these ancient laws is therefore of
importance. Even in the most flourishing times of the re-
public, they continued to he of the highest authority. They
have the encomium of Cicero himself; and we learn from
him, that to commit these laws to memory was an essentia]
part of a liberal education. From the twelve tables the juris-
consult composed a system of judicial forms, for the regulation
of the different tribunals. The number of the laws was like-
wise from time to time increased by the Senatusconsulta and
Plebiscita ; the first enacted by the sole authority of the
senate, and the latter by the people without the consent of the
senate.
3. The decemvirs were invested with all the powers of
government, for the consulate and all other authority but their
own had ceased on their creation. Each decemvir by turn
presided for a day, and had the sovereign authority, with its
insignia, the fasces. The nine others officiated solely as
judges in the determination of law-suits, and the correction of
abuses. An abuse, however, of the most flagrant
committed by the chief of their own number, was destined
speedily to bring their office to its termination.
4. Appius Claudius, inflamed by lawless passion for tho
young Virginia, the betrothed spouse of Icilius, formerly a
tribune of the people, employed a profligate dependant to
claim the maiden as his own property, on the false pretence of
her being the daughter of one of his female slaves. The claim
was made to the decemvir himself in judgment, who pro-
nounced an infamous decree, which tore from her family this
helpless victim, and put her into the hands of his own minion.
Her father Virginius, to save the honour of his child, plunged
a dagger into her breast ; and the people, witnesses of this
shocking scene, would have massacred Appius on the spot,
had he not found means to escape amidst the tumult. Their
vengeance, however, was satiated by the instant abolition of
this hated magistracy, and by the death of Appius, who chose
by his own hand to prevent the stroke of the executioner.
His colleague Oppius, the chief abettor of his crimes, died in
the same manner, and the rest went into voluntary exile, while
their goods were forfeited to the public use. The decem-
virate had subsisted for three years. The consuls were now
restored, together with the tribunes, which reinstated the
people at once to all their rights and privileges, 449 b. c.
AN IRISH HEDGE SCHOOL.
[From Carleton’s “ Traits and Stories of the Irish Peasantry."]
During the summer season, it was the usual practice
for the scholars to transfer their paper, slates, and
books, to the green which lay immediately behind the
school-house, where they stretched themselves on the
grass, and resumed their business. Mat would bring
out his chair, and, placing it on the shady side of the
hedge, sit with his pipe in his mouth, the contented
lord of his little realm, whilst nearly a hundred and
fifty scholars, of all sorts and sizes, lay scattered over
the grass, basking under the scorching sun in all the
luxury of novelty, nakedness, and freedom.
As soon as one o’clock drew near, Mat would pull
out his ring-dial , holding it against the sun, and
declare the hour.
“ Now, boys, to yer dinners, and the rest to play.”
“ Hurroo, darlins, to play ; the masther says it’s
dinner-time. Whip-spur-an’-away-gray —hurroo—
whack—hurroo!”
“ Masther, sir, my father bid me ax you home to
yer dinner.”
“ No, he’ll come to huz—come wid me if you
plase, sir.”
“ Sir, never heed them; my mother, sir, has some
of ivhat you know —of the flitch I brought to Shoneen
on last Aisther, sir.”
This was a subject on which the boys gave them-
selves great liberty ; an invitation, even when not
accepted, being an indemnity for the day ; it was
usually followed by a battle between the claimants,
and bloody noses sometimes were the issue. The
master himself, after deciding to go where he was
certain of getting the best dinner, generally put an


end to the quarrels by a reprimand, and then gave
notice to the disappointed claimants of the successive
days on which he would attend at their respective
houses.
“ Boys, you all know my maxim ; to go, for fear of
any jealousies, boys, wherever I get the worst dinner ;
so tell me now, boys, what yer dacent mothers have
all got at home for me?”
“ My mother killed a fat hen yesterday, sir, an’
you’ll have a lump of bacon and flat dutch’ along
wid it.”
11 We’ll have hung beef and greens, sir.”
u We tried the praties this mornin’, sir, an’ we’ll
have new praties, and bread and butther, sir.”
“ Well, it’s all good, boys; but rather than show
favour or affection, do you see, I’ll go wid Andy,
here, and take share of the hen an’ bacon ; but, boys,
for all that, I am fonder of the other things, you per-
save ; and as I can’t go wid you, Mat, tell your re-
spectable mother that I’ll be with her to-morrow;
and with you, Larry, the day afther.”
If a master were a single man, he usually “ went
round ” with the scholars each night; but there were
generally a few comfortable farmers, leading men in
the parish, at whose house he chiefly resided ; and the
children of these men were treated with the grossest
and most barefaced partiality. They were altogether
privileged persons, and had liberty to beat and abuse
the other children of the school, who were certain of
being most unmercifully flogged, if they even dared
to prefer a complaint against the favourites.
[The scenes in school were often of the most ludi-
crous kind.]
Having gone through the spelling task, it was Mat’s
custom to give out six hard words , selected according
to his judgment, as a final test; but he did not always
confine himself to that. Sometimes he would put a
number of syllables arbitrarily together, forming a
most heterogeneous combination of articulate sounds.
“ Now, boys, here’s a deep word, that’ll thry yez;
come, Larry, spell me-mo-man-dr&n-san-ti-fi-can-du-
ban-dan-ti-al-i-ty, or mis-an-thro-po-mor-phi-la-ni-a-
nus-mi-ca-li-a-tion; that’s too hard for you, is it?
Well, then, spell phthisic.—Oh, that’s physic you’re
spellin’. Now Larry, do you know the difference
between physic and phthisic?”
li No, sir.”
“ Well I’ll expound it: phthisic, you see, manes—
whisht, boys ; will yez hould yer tongues there—
phthisic, Larry, signifies—that is, phthisic—mind, it’s
not physic I’m expounding, but phthisic—boys, will
yez stop yer noise there—signifies but, Larry, it’s
so deep a word in lamin’, that I should draw it out
on a slate for you ; and now I remimber, man alive,
you’re not far enough on yet to undherstand it; but
what’s physic, Larry ?”
i Isn’t that, sir, what my father tuck the day he
got sick, sir ?”
11 That’s the very thing, Larry : it has what larned
men call a medical property. Och! och ! I’m the boy
that knows things you see now how I expounded
them two hard words for yez, boys —don’t yez ?”
“ Yes, sir,” &c.
“ So, Larry, you haven’t the lamin’ for that either ;
but here’s an asier one—spell me Ephabridotas (Epa-
phroditas) —you can’t! Hut! man —you’re a big
dunce entirely ; that little shoneen Sharkey there
below would sack you.”
[An arithmetical class is called up.]
“ Well, Thady, when did you go into subtraction V 7
“ The day beyond yesterday, sir; yarra musha,
sure ’twas yourself, sir, that set me the first sum.”
“ Well, Thady, from one thousand pounds, no shil-
lings, and no pince, how will you subtract one
pound V'
“ I don’t know how to set about it, masther.”
“You don’t; an’ how dare you tell me so, you
shingawn you—you Cornelius Agrippa you—go to
your sate and study it, or I’ll—ha; be off you ”
“ Pierce Butler, come up wid your multiplication.
Pierce, multiply four hundred by two —put it down—
that’s it.”
“ Twice nought is one.” (Whack, whack.) “ Take
that as an illustration—is that one V*
“ Why, masther, that’s two, any how ; but, sir, is
not wanst nought nothin’; now, masther, sure there
can’t be less than nothin’.”
“ Very good, sir.”
“ If wanst nought be nothin’, then twice nought
must be somethin’, for its double what wanst nought
is ; see how I'm sthruck for nothin' , an’ me knows it
—hoo ! hoo ! hoo !”
“ Get out, you Esculapian ; but I'll give you some-
thin , by and by, just to make you remimber that you
know nothin'; off wid you to your sate, you spalpeen
you —to tell me that there can’t be less than nothin’,
when it’s well known that sporting Squire O’Canter
is worth a thousand pounds less than nothin’.”
Sometimes the neighbouring gentry used to call
into Mat’s establishment, moved probably by a curio-
sity excited by his character, and the general con-
duct of the school. On one occasion, Squire Johnston
and an English gentleman paid him rather an un-
expected visit. Mat had that morning got a new
scholar, the son of a dancing tailor in the neighbour-
hood ; and as it was reported that the son was nearly
equal to the father in that accomplishment, Mat in-
sisted on having a specimen of his skill. He was
the more anxious on this point, as it would contribute
to the amusement of a travelling schoolmaster, who
had paid him rather a hostile visit, which Mat, who
dreaded a literary challenge, feared might occasion
him some trouble.
“ Come up here, you little sartor , till we get a
dacent view of you. You’re a son of Neil Malone’s—
aren’t you ?”
“ Yes, and of Mary Malone, my mother, too, sir.”
“ Why thin, that’s not bad, any how. What’s your
name *?”
“ Dick, sir.”
“ Now, Dick, ma bouchal, isn’t it true that you can
dance a hornpipe'?”
“ Yes, sir.”
“ Here, Larry Brady, take the door off the hinges,
an’ lay it down on the flure, till Dick Malone dances
the Humours of Glynn: silence, boys, not a word;
but just keep lookin’ an.”
“ Who’ll sing, sir ? for I can’t be afther dancin’ a
step widout the music.”
“ Boys, which of yez’ll sing for Dick ? I say, boys,
will none of yez give Dick the harmony ? Well, come
Dick, I’ll sing for you myself: —
Torral 101, lorral 101, lorral 101. lorral 10l
Toldherol, lorral 101, lorral 101, 101, 101, &c.
“ I say, Misther Kavanagh,” said the strange master,
“ what angle does Dick’s heel form in the second step
of the treble, from the kibe on the left foot to the
corner of the door forninst him ?”


To this mathematical poser Mat made no reply,
only sang the tune with redoubled loudness and
strength, whilst little Dicky pounded the old crazy
door with all his skill and alacrity. The “ boys” were
delighted.
“ Bravo, Dick ; that’s a man —welt the flure—cut
the buckle —murder the clocks—rise upon suggaun,
and sink upon gad —down the flure flat—foot about—
keep one foot on the ground and t’other never off it,”
saluted him from all parts of the house.
Just at this moment the two gentlemen entered;
and, reader, you may conceive, but I cannot describe,
the face which Mat (who sat with his back to the
door, and did not see them until they were some time
in the house) exhibited on the occasion. There he
sung ore rotundo , throwing forth an astonishing tide
of voice ; whilst little Dick, a thin, pale-faced urchin,
with his head, from which the hair stood erect, sunk
between his hollow shoulders, was performing prodi-
gious feats of agility.
“ What’s the matter? what’s the matter?” said the
gentlemen. “ Good morning, Mr. Kavanagh !”
“ Oh, good—oh, good morning—gintlemen, with
extrame kindness,” replied Mat, rising suddenly up,
but not removing his hat, although the gentlemen in-
stantly uncovered.
“ Why, thin, gintlemen,” he continued, “ you have
caught us in our little relaxations to-day ; but—hem !
—I mane to give the boys a holiday for the sake of
this honest and respectable gintleman in the frize
jock, who is not entirely ignorant, you persave, of
litherature ; and we had a small taste, gintlemen,
among ourselves, of Sathurnalian licentiousness, ut ita
dicam , in regard of—hem ! —in regard of this lad here,
who was dancing a hornpipe upon the door ; and we,
in absence of betther music, had to supply him with
the harmony ; but as your honours know, gintlemen,
the greatest men have bent themselves on espacial
occasions.”
“ Make no apology, Mr. Kavenagh ; it’s very com-
mendable in you to bend yourself by condescending
to amuse your pupils.”
“ I beg your pardon, Squire, I can take freedoms
with you; but perhaps the concomitant gentleman,
your friend here, would be plased to take my stool.
Indeed, I always use a chair; but the back of it, if I
may be permitted the use of a small portion of jocu-
larity, w r as as frail as the fair sect :it went home
yisterday to be mended. Do, sir, condescind to be
sated. Upon my reputation, Squire, I’m sorry that
I have not accommodation for you, too, sir ; except
one of these hassocks, which, in joint considheration
with the length of your honour’s legs, would be, I
anticipate, rather low r , but you, sir, will honour me
by taking the stool.”
By considerable importunity, he forced the gentle-
man to comply with his courtesy ; but no sooner had
he fixed himself upon the seat, than it overturned, and
stretched him, black coat and all, across a wide con-
cavity in the floor nearly filled up with white ashes
produced from mountain turf. In a moment he was
completely white on one side, and exhibited a most
laughable appearance ; his hat, too, was scorched,
and nearly burned on the turf coals. Squire John-„
ston laughed heartily, as did the other schoolmaster*
whilst the Englishman completely lost his temper —
swearing that such another uncivilised establishment
was not between the poles.
“ I solemnly supplicate upwards of fifty pardons,”
said Mat; “ bad manners to it for a stool ! but your
honour, it was ray own defect of speculation, bekase,
you see, it’s minus a leg—a circumstance of which
you warn’t in a proper capacity to take cognation, as
not being personally acquainted with it. I hum-
bly supplicate upwards of fifty pardons.”
The Englishman was now nettled, and determined
to wreak his ill temper on Mat, by turning him and
his establishment into ridicule.
“ Isn’t this Mister 1 forget your name, sir.”
“ Mat Kavenagh, at your sarvice.”
“ Very well, my learned friend, Mr. Mat Ke-
venagh, isn’t this precisely what is called a hedge-
school?
“ A hedge-school !” replied Mat, highly offended;
“my seminary a hedge-school! No, sir ; I scorn the
cognomen in toto. This, sir, is a Classical and Mathe-
matical seminary, under the personal superintendence
of your humble servant.”
“ Sir,” replied the other master, who till then was
silent, wishing, perhaps, to sack Mat in presence of
the gentleman, “it is a hedge-school; and he is no
scholar, but an ignoramus, whom I’d sack in three
minutes, that would be ashamed of a hedge-school.”
“ Ay,” says Mat, changing his tone, and taking the
cue from his friend, whose learning he dreaded, “it’s
just, for argument’s sake, a hedge-school ; and what
is more, I scorn to be ashamed of it.”
“ And do you not teach occasionally under the hedge
behind the house, here ?”
“ Granted,” replied Mat, and now where’s your
vis consequently ?
“ Yes,”subjoined the other ; “ produce your vis con-
sequently; but any one may know by a glance that
the divil a much of it’s about you.”
The Englishman himself was rather at a loss for
the vis consequently , and replied, “Why don't you
live, and learn, and teach like civilized beings, and
not assemble like wild asses —pardon me, my friend,
for the simile—at least like wild colts, in such clusters
behind the ditches'?”
“A clusther of wild coults !” said Mat; “ that
show's what you are; no man of classical lamin’
would use such a word. If you had stuck at the
asses, we know it’s a subject you’re at home in—ha !
ha ! ha! But you brought the joke on yourself,
your honour—that is, if it’s a joke—ha! ha! ha!”
“ Permit me, sir,” replied the strange master, “ to
ax your honour one question—did you receive a clas-
sical education? Are you college-bred ?”
“ Yes,” replied the Englishman ; “ I can reply to
both in the affirmative. I’m a Cantabrigian.”
‘‘You area what?' 1 ' asked Mat.
“ I am a Cantabrigian.”
“ Come, sir, you must explain yourself, if you
plase. I’ll take my oath that’s neither a classical
nor a mathematic.al term.”
The English gentleman smiled. “ I was educated
in the English college of Cambridge.”
“ Well,” says Mat, “and maybe you would be as
well off if you had picked up your lamin’ in our own
Thrinity ; there’s good picking in Thrinity for gen-
tlemen like you, that are sober and harmless about
the brains, in regard of not being overly bright.”
“ You talk with contempt of a hedge-school,” re-
plied the master, “ Did you never hear, for all so
long as you war in Cambridge, of a nate little spot in
Greece called the groves of Academus?
“ Inter lucos Academi quserere verum.”


What was Plato himself but a hedge-schoolmaster?
and, with humble submission, it casts no slur on an
Irish tacher to be compared to him, I think. You
forget, also, sir, that the Dhruids taught under their
oaks: eh!
il Ay,” added Mat, and the Tree of Knowledge
too. Faith, an’ if that same tree was now in being,
if there wouldn’t be hedge-schoolmasters, there would
be plenty of hedge-scholars, any how—particularly
if the fruit was well tasted.”
“ I believe, Millbank, you must give in,” said
Squire Johnston. 11 I think you have got the worst
of it.”
“ Why,” said Mat, “ if the gintleman’s not afther
bein’ sacked clane, I’m not here.”
tl Are you a mathematician?” inquired Mat’s friend,
determined to follow up his victory ; “ do you know
mensuration ?”
“ Come, I do know mensuration,” said the English-
man with confidence.
“ And how would you find the solid contents of
a load of thorns ?" said the other.
** Ay, or how will you consther and parse me this
sintince ?” said Mat
u Ragibus et clotibus solemus stopere windous,
Nos numerus sumus et fruges consumere nati,
Stercora flat stiro rara terra tantaro bungo.”
“ Aisy, Mister Kavanagh,” replied the other ; “ let
the Cantabrigian resolve the one I propounded him
first.”
“ And let the Cantabrigian then take up mine,”
said Mat; and if he can expound it, I’ll give him a
dozen more to bring home in his pocket, for the Cam-
bridge folk to crack after their dinner, along wid
their nuts.”
“ Can you do the ‘ Snail?’ ” inquired the stranger.
** Or ‘ A and B on opposite sides of a wood,’ with-
out the Key? Hand me down that cudgel, Jack
Brady, till I show the gintleman the ‘ Snail’ and the
* Maypole,’ ” said Mat.
“ Never mind, my lad ; never mind, Mr. a
Kevanagh. I give up the contest; I resign you the
palm, gentlemen. The hedge-school has beaten Cam-
bridge hollow.”
“ One poser more before you go, sir,” said Mat.
tl Can you give me Latin for a game-egg in two
words ?"
“ Eh, a game-egg? No, by my honour, I cannot.
Gentlemen, I yield.”
lt Ay, 1 thought so,” replied Mat; “ and, faith, I
believe the divil a much of the game bird is about
you ; but bring it home to Cam-bridge, anyhow, and
let them chew their cuds upon it, you persave; and,
by the sowl of Newton, it will puzzle the whole
establishment, or my name’s not Kavanagh.”
“ It will, I am convinced,” replied the gentleman,
eyeing the Herculean frame of the strange teacher,
and the substantial cudgel in Mat’s hand ; “ it will,
•undoubtedly. But who is this most miserable naked
lad here, Mr. Kevanagh?”
“ Why, sir,” replied Mat, with his broad Milesian
face expanded by a forthcoming joke, “ he is, sir, in
a sartin and especial particularity a namesake of your
own.”
“ How is that, Mr. Kevanagh ?”
“ My name’s not Kevanagh,” replied Mat, “ but
Kavenagh i the Irish A for ever !
“ Well, but how is the lad a namesake of mine?
said the Englishman.
“ Bekase, you see, he’s a poor scholar, sir,” replied
Mat; an’ I hope your honour will pardon me for the
facetiousness.”
“ There, Mr. Kavenagh, is the price of a suit of
clothes for him.”
“ Michael, will you rise up, sir, and make the
gentleman a bow? he has given you the price of a
shoot of clothes, my bouchal.”
Michael came up with a very tattered coat hanging
about him ; and, catching his fore-lock, bobbed down
his head after the usual manner, saying, “ Musha
yarrah, long life to your honour every day you rise,
an’ the Lord grant your sowl a short stay in purga-
tory ; wishin’ ye, at the same time, a happy death
aftherwards !”
The gentleman could not stand this, but laughed so
heartily, that the argument was fairly knocked up.
ETYMOLOGICUM PARVUM.
Including Derivations and Affinities, Coincidences and
Conjectures.
No 3.
Hic-cough ; (pron. hic-cup *) s. the hie cough.
Harico, (pron. har-i-co) s. French, a bean.
Idolatry, s. nSwXov Xarpeia, Gr. worship of an idol. A most
expressive word, ruthlessly syncopated.
IHC, or IH2, (C being the ancient form of Sigma, [2] es-
pecially final ) is an abridgement of 1H20Y2 f Greek for
JEsUS. This the Latin Church corrupted to the next, i. e.
r. H. S. the initials of Jesus I/ominum Salvator, Jesus, the
Saviour of Men.
I. E H. A contraction of the word [JEH]ovah.
’IxO vq,s. Greek, a fish : put on the tomb of Greek Christians
when they dared not, otherwise than by this sort of freemasonry
symbol, signify their faith in 'l[?;(roi;c] X [piarog], 0 [fou]
Y[ioe], 2[wr*}p]. Gr. Jesus Christ, the Son of God, [is my]
Saviour.
Jerusalem [Artichoke] s. Geri[t] s(e] a[d] solem, hat.
turns itself to the sun, as heliotropes do : perhaps, better, from
the Italian— Girando si ad sole — Girasole.
Lepus, [Lat.] s. a hare: quasi levis pes, [levipes] light, [or
swift of] foot.
Mee-yeo, s. the London-Cry for milk: mi eau, Fr. half-
water ! One of the few sellers, who tell truth !
Meridian, s. mera dies, Lat. pure [or clear] day, which it
is at noon, or mid-day, [medius dies].
* Perhaps, of all syllables, ough has the most modes of be-
ing pronounced : take the following nine as a proof: uff, off, auff:
ou, owe, oo : au, ock, up ! as heard in chough, trough, cough ;
drought, dough, through ; ought, hough, fo'c-cough! As an
illustration of the difficulty of applying rules to the pronuncia-
tion of our language, take the following two lines, where the
combination of the letters ough is pronounced in seven differ-
ent ways—>
Though the tough cough, and hiccough plough me through,
O’er life’s dark lough my course I still pursue.
f Unless, perhaps, it be the initials of the words ’l[j}<rovc]
’H[j aa>v] 2[a»rj)|o], Jesus our Saviour.
Varieties.
Hear, hear! —Sheridan once succeeded admirably in en-
trapping a noisy member, who was in the habit of interrupting
every speaker with cries of “ Hear, hear.” Brinsley took an
opportunity to allude to a well-known political character of the
time, who wished to play the rogue, but had only sense enough
to play the fool. “ Where,” exclaimed Sheridan, in conti-
nuation, and with great emphasis, “ where shall we find a more
foolish knave or a more knavish fool than this ?” “ Hear,
hear!” was instantly bellowed from the accustomed bench.
The wit bowed—thanked the gentleman for his ready reply to
the question—and sat down amid convulsions of laughter from
.all but the unfortunate subject.
Equanimity of Temper. —Let your desires and aversions to
the common objects and occurrences in this life be but few and
feeble. Make it your daily business to moderate your aversions
and desires, and to govern them by reason. This will guard
you against many a ruffle of spirit, both of anger arid sorrow.
Watts.


The Moralist.
RELIGION.
[concluded]
The Lord is gracious and beneficent; he hath created the
world in mercy and love.
His goodness is conspicuous in all his works; he is the
fountain of excellence, the centre of perfection.
The creatures of his hand declare his goodness, and all
their enjoyments speak his praise: he clotheth them with
beauty, he supporteth them with food, he preserveth them with
pleasure from generation to generation.
If we lift up our eyes to the heavens, his glory shineth forth ;
if we cast them down upon the earth, it is full of his goodness;
the hills and the valleys rejoice and sing; fields, rivers, and
woods, resound his praise.
But thou, O man, hehath distinguished with peculiar favour 5
and exalted thy station above all creatures.
Hehath endued thee with reason, to maintain thy dominion ;
he hath fitted thee with language, to improve by society ; and
exalted thy mind with the powers of meditation to contemplate
and adore his inimitable perfections.
And in the laws he hath ordained as the rule of thy life, so
kindly hath he suited thy duty to thy nature, that obedience to
his precepts is happiness to thyself.
“ O praise his goodness with songs of thanksgiving, and
meditate in silence on the wonders of his love; let thy heart
overflow with gratitude and acknowledgment; let the language
of thy lips speak praise and adoration ; let the actions of thy
life shew thy love to his law.”
The Lord is just and righteous, and will judge the earth
with equity and truth.
Hath he established his laws in goodness and mercy, and
shall he not punish the transgressors thereof?
O think not, bold man ! because thy punishment is delayed,
that the arm of the Lord is weakened ; neither flatter thyself
with hopes that he winketh at thy doings.
His eye pierceth the secrets of every heart, and he remem-
bereth them for ever; he respecteth not the persons or the
stations of men.
The high and the low, the rich and the poor, the wise and
the ignorant, when the soul hath shaken off the cumbrous
shackles of this mortal life, shall equally receive from the sen-
tence of God a just and everlasting retribution, according to
their works.
Then shall the wicked tremble and be afraid ; but the heart
of the righteous shall rejoice in his judgments.
“O fear the Lord, therefore, all the days of thy life, and
walk in the paths which he hath opened before thee. Let
prudence admonish thee, let temperance restrain, let justice
guide thy hand, benevolence warm thy heart, and gratitude to
heaven inspire thee with devotion. These shall give thee hap-
piness in thy present state, and bring thee to the mansions of
eternal felicity, in the paradise of God.”
MORAL MAXIMS.
ALPHABETICALLY ARRANOBD.
No. 30.
Cajole not your neighbour, lest you deceive yourself.
Calamities which cannot be avoided, it is useless to lament
over.
Calculate well before you resolve.
Call me cousin, but cozen me not.
Callous hearts that are insensible to others’ misery, are sus-
ceptible of no true delight.
Candour and open-dealing are the honour of man’s nature.
Candour intentionally oflends no one, but is never servilely
complaisant.
Captious people create trouble for themselves, by troubling
Carefully study nature, and look through nature up to
nature’s God.
Care will kill a cat, yet there is no living without it.
Carnal sins proceed from fulness of food and emptiness of
employment.
Carry a watchful eye upon dangerous enterprises.
Covetousness. —There are few persons who would not
indignantly repel the charge of covetousness, or eagerly en-
deavour to prove such a charge to be false and groundless;
yet it is to be feared that many are guilty of this vice, who dis-
guise it with ingenious sophistry, under specious and plausible i
names.— Mackenzie .
Select Poetry.
SATAN’S ADDRESS TO THE ALMIGHTY
Thou dread Avenger! dver-living One!
Lone Arbiter; Eternal, Vast, and True;
The soul and centre of created things
In atoms or in worlds ; around whose throne
Eternity is wheel’d ; who look’st—and life
Appears; who frown'st—and life hath pass’d away 1
Thou God! —I feel Thine everlasting Curse,
Yet wither not; the lightnings of Thy wrath
Burn in my spirit, yet it shall endure
Unblasted, —that which cannot be extinct.
Thou sole Transcendency, and deep Abyss
From whence the universe of life was drawn !
Unutter’d is Thy nature; to Thyself
Alone the proved, and comprehended God ;
Though once the steep of Thine Almightiness
This haught, unbowing spirit would have climb’d,
And sat beside thee, God with God enthroned, —
And vanquish’d, fell—Thy might I’ll not disclaim.
Immutable! Omnipotence is Thine ;
Perfections, Powers, and Attributes unnamed
Attend Thee; Thou art All, and oh, how great
That consummation ! Worlds to listening worlds
Repeat it, angels and archangels veil
Their wings, and shine more glorious at the sound :
Thus, Infinite and fathomless, Thou wert,
And art, and wilt be. In Thine awful blaze
Of majesty, amid empyreal pomp
Of Sanctities, chief Hierarch, I stood
Before Thy throne terrifically bright,
And heard the hymning thunders voice thy name,
While bow’d the Heavens and echoed Deity!
MONTOOMERT.
THE DROP OF DEW.
See how the orient dew/
Shed from the bosom of the morn,
Into the flowing roses,
Yet careless of its mansion new,
For the clear region where ’twas born,
Round in itself incloses :
And in its little globe’s extent,
Frames as it can its native element.
How it the purple flower does slight!
Scarce touching where it lies;
But gazing back upon the skies,
Shines with a mournful light,
Like its own tear,
Because so long divided from the sphere.
Restless it rolls and insecure,
Trembling lest it grow impure,
Till the warm sun pities its pain,
And to the skies exhales it back again.
So the soul, that drop, that ray
Of the clear fountain of eternal day,
Could it within the human flower be seen,
Remembering still its former height,
Shuns the sweet leaves and blossoms green ;
And recollecting its own light, #
Does in its pure and circling thoughts express
The greater heaven in an heaven less.
In how coy a figure wound,
Every way it turns away ;
So the world excluding round,
Yet receiving in the day ;
Dark beneath but bright above,
Here disdaining, there in love :
How loose and easy hence to go ;
How girt and ready to ascend ;
Moving but on a point below,
It all about does upwards bend.
Such did the manna’s sacred dew distil,
White and entire although congeal’d and chill ;
Congeal’d on earth ; but does dissolving run
Into the glories of the Almighty sun.
ANDREW MARVELL.


CATALLACTICS.
Flax. —Linum Usitatissimum.
[continued.]
On the 26th of December, after perusing that very
delightful article in the Colonial Literary Journal ,
entitled Christmas, and considering for a little whe-
ther we had ever really seen the hawthorn flowering
at that season, and deciding that we never had that
happiness, we resolved to accept the invitation of a
a friend in the neighbourhood of Sydney to spend the
day with him. Our own carriage and saddle horses
having been all lent to friends going to the races, we,
and such part of our family as we thought fit for a
walk of three or four miles on a stretch, took boat at
the gas works (the steamer being sick) and w r ere
rowed over to Balmain. Our course then lay in the
direction of Austenham, and notwithstanding the
sultriness of the day, we had a very pleasant walk
indeed, through the scrub, where we picked up a
variety of beautiful flowers, with the botanical names
of w'hich w r e shall not at present trouble the reader.
The nosegay of cultivated flowers which we brought
home in the evening from our friends, was superior
on the whole, both in scent and beauty, but there
were in the wild one individual flower which sur-
passed any in the other.
Having deposited the ladies and children at our
friend’s house, he and I extended our walk with the
intent of inhaling a small portion of oxygen before
dinner to assist in the process of absorption, repro-
duction, and conversion, which proceeds in the human
frame, analogously to that which we have been re-
commending in the social system. Perceiving no
indication of mantraps or spring guns, we trespassed
upon the grounds of James Norton, Esq., and having
entertained our mind and senses with the several
phases of that English landscape, we directed our
feet for the sake of shade, and our eyes for the sake
of information to the strip of uncleared bush which
runs along the Balmain road. We declare that
accustomed as we have been to affix a value to every
thing, having at one time of our life been an
auctioneer’s clerk, we are incapable of appraising the
degree of pleasure and surprise with which we des-
cried under, around us and at a little distance, our
old friend the Linum. There it was, and no mistake.
Some of it still in flower, but mostly in seed, and
seeding. Of the average height of fifteen inches.
Three or four stems to each root. Fibre good. And
though, comparatively with what we have before had
in our hands, a poor specimen, yet better certainly
than we should have expected to find spontanescent in
such a piece of ground.
This was on the 26th of December. An inspection
satisfied us that the plant was a week or ten days too
old, and allowing the usual period of growth (which
is however only an uncertain rule,) we concluded
that the seed began to spring about the first week of
September. It is to be observed however that it must
have been shed from the seed vessels in December,
1843, and have lain on, or in, the ground for eight
months, the first three of which were, we remember,
dry and hot, and the other five cold and wet. We think
therefore, that there has been no intermediate summer
crop—that the seed has been exposed to all the chances
of the atmosphere, and to birds and insects, for eight
months—and that it would be of no use to sow it
earlier than Ist September. We may notice that
this specimen was grown under bush-shade—a cir-
cumstance which is equivocal—it may have been
favourable and indicating that the summer heats
ought to be avoided by sowing in winter ; or that
the winter frosts ought to he avoided by sowing in
September : or it may have been unfavourable.
These deductions are to a certain degree conjectural,
and might be set at rest by the simple expedient of
dividing an acre of good land into twelve or twenty
portions, and sowing one of such portions every month
or fifteen days with 3 or 4 lbs. of good linseed if it
can be got, noting the appearance of the seed, the
state of the ground, the weather, the state of the
growth, and so on, from time to time. Our extensive
concerns beyond the boundaries so fully engross our
own attention, that we cannot undertake this practical
duty. In fact, considering that we have not a square
foot of land within the boundary to grow so much as
a cabbage, and do not hope to have any until we draw
that save ticket, we must be allowed to have mani-
fested a laudable largeness of heart and perseverance
of pen in endeavouring as we have to confer value on
agricultural land.
Pliny (as, quoted by Wilkinson) sayeth, that
amongst the Egyptians the following was the simple
plan of preparation :
“ The stalks themselves are immersed in water,
warmed by the heat of the sun, and are kept down by
weights placed upon them, for nothing is lighter than
flax. The membrane, or rind, becoming loose is a
sign of their being sufficiently macerated. They are
then taken out and repeatedly turned over in the sun,
until perfectly dried ; and afterwards beaten by
mallets on stone slabs. That which is nearest the
rind is called ‘ stupa,’ tow, inferior to the fibres, and
fit only for the wicks of lamps. It is combed out
with iron hooks until all the rind is removed. The
inner part is of a whiter and finer quality. Men are
not ashamed to prepare it. After it is made into
yarn, it is polished by striking it frequently on a hard
stone, moistened with w T ater •, and when woven into
cloth it is again beaten with clubs, being always
improved in proportion as it is beaten.” [ The Greeks
were in some respects very foolish and thought (as
savages still do) that war and debate only were fit
for freemen—the Egyptians were a wise and for
many centuries a happy people and did not scorn to
do their own work whether indoor or out.] From
the Penny Cyclopaedia we copy the account of the
process as practised in modern days.
“ The flax remains spread out on the grass about
fourteen days, till the woody part becomes brittle,
and some of the finest fibres separate from it of their
own accord. It is then taken up, and as soon as it is
quite dry it is tied in bundles, and carried into the
barn to be broken and heckled at leisure during the
winter. In the domestic manufactures it is scutched
at home when the weather prevents out door work.
The common brake consists of four wooden swords
fixed in a frame, and another frame with three swords
which play in the interstices of the first, by means of
a joint at one end. The flax is taken in the left
hand, and placed between the two frames, and the
upper frame is pushed down briskly upon it. It
breaks the flax in four places, and by moving the
left hand, and rapidly repeating the strokes with the
right, the whole handful is soon broken. It is then
scutched by means of a board set upright in a block
of wood so as to stand steady, in%hich is a horizontal


slit about three feet from the ground, the edge of
■which is thin. The broken flax held in handfuls in
the left hand is inserted in this slit so as to project to
the right, and a flat wooden sword of a peculiar shape
is held in the right hand. With this the flax is re-
peatedly struck close to the upright board, while the
part which lies in the slit is continually changed by
a motion of the left hand. The operation beats off
all the pieces of the wood which still adher« to the
fibre without breaking the latter, and after a short
time the flax is cleared of it, and fit to go to the
Heckler. But the operations of breaking and
scutching are tedious and laborious when thus exe-
cuted by hand. A mill is now used (when large
quantities of flax are required for manufactures)
having three cylinders, fluted, one of which is made to
revolve by horse or water power and carries the other
two round. The flax plants are passed between these
cylinders, while thus revolving, and the stalk or boon
(as it is technically termed) is by this means com-
pletely broken without injuring the fibres. The
scutching is accomplished in the same mill by means
of four arms projecting from a horizontal axle, and
arranged so as to strike the boon in a slanting direc-
tion until it is all beaten away.”
It is in this state that our flax should be when !
shipped for England. And so God send the good i
ship to her desired port in safety.
GAFFER GRAY.
Mallets and Iron Comb used by the Egyptians for beating
and scutching.— Wilkinson.
Scutching Board and Sword alluded to above. - Penny
Cyclopæ dia.
Floating Frame used for holding Flax when steeping in the
river Lys.-Penny Cyclopæ dia.
CHEMICAL PHILOSOPHY.
ON SUGAR.
Sugar was originally transported to other nations
from the West Indies, and was extracted from the
sugar-cane which grows luxuriantly in those islands.
It might however be planted in the more northern parts
of this colony with much success, and there is a hope
that we may produce sugar in quality and quantity
to satisfy the demands of our whole population.—
Sugar is not however confined to that species of tree,
but may also be extracted from the juice of many
vegetables; it is contained in all those having a sweet
taste. In France, sugar has been procured in very
great perfection from beet-root, and no doubt it might
be made from many fruits, such as figs and dates, but
it could never equal the sugar made from the W T est
India cane, which is the sugar most commonly used
in all civilised countries.
The general sweetness found in plants, roots and
flowers, is chemically called saccharine matter, from
the botanical name of the genus of the sugar cane,
which is saccharum.
The manufacture of sugar consists entirely in se-
parating the concrete sugar from the substances with
which it is associated in the cane juice. When the
cane is ripe, it is cut from its roots and deprived of
its leaves, it is then put into a mill and pressed with
iron machinery, causing the sugar to ooze out as a
thick liquid; this liquid is then boiled in lime water,
when the scum rises on its surface, and the sugar thus
dissolved sinks to the bottom of the boiler. It is
then drawn off into shallow wooden coolers, where it
becomes a soft solid, of crystalline grains: it is then
put into barrels with holes in the bottom, through
which the black juice called treacle or molasses gra-
dually drops, leaving the sugar comparatively dry.
In this state it is called raw or muscovado sugar. In
this condition both the sugar and the molasses are
packed into hogsheads for exportation.
The process of refining sugar is carried on in most
European countries. For this purpose brown or raw
sugar is dissolved in lime water and bullock’s blood
w . mixed, and sometimes the white of eggs. After
this has stood for a night, fires are lighted under the
vessels, and when the liquid boils, part of the blood
rises to the surface, bringing with it the impurities of
the sugar which are taken off with a skimmer.
When the sugar is considered sufficiently purified, it
is poured into conical moulds which have been soaked
in water, where it cools and becomes one solid crystal.
In this state it is called refined or loaf sugar. Good
pure sugar is hard and brittle, and when two pieces
are rubbed together in the dark phosphorescence is
observed. Loaf sugar may be again dissolved in
water, and if the water be allowed to evaporate slowly
regular crystals will be formed which are called can-
died sugar. Loaf sugar melted by heat without water
and then put into crooked moulds to cool, is known
to us as barley sugar. Bees sip the sugar from
flowers, but honey is not pure sugar, for the resin or
mucilage of the plant is combined with it, besides
wnich, it is thought that the saccharine matter of the
flower undergoes some change after it is taken into
the body of the insect, as it forms both honey and
hive. J
tt Edwards, the historian, of the West Indies says,
Ihe time of crop in the sugar islands is the season
ot gladness to man and beast. So palatable, salutary
and nourishing, is the juice of the cane, that every


individual of the animal creation, drinking freely of
it, derives health and vigour from its use. The
meagre and sickly among the negroes exhibit a sur-
prising alteration in a few weeks after the mill is set
in action. The horses and oxen being indulged with
plenty of the green tops of this noble plant improve
more than at any other period of the year. The pigs
and poultry also fatten on the scummings from the
boilers and other refuse, and there is such an ap-
pearance, during crop time, of plenty and busy cheer-
fulness, as to soften the hardships of slavery.” The
plentiful use of sugar in diet is considered a good
preventive of indigestion, and Sir John Pringle
remarks that “ The plague has never been known in
any country where sugar composes a principal part
of the diet of its inhabitants.”
My own individual experience of the benefit of
sugar to animals has been exemplified in this colony.
A cow kept for family use had been alarmed and
worried by a bull dog, and though the bite of the
animal healed, the cow appeared to decline daily and
at length could not stand. I ordered one pound of
coarse sugar to be given her in half a pail of bran
and warm water. She took it ravenously, and seemed
much revived, it was repeated during the day, when
the animal rose and walked into her paddock, since
which time she has given more milk than heretofore.
B.
ANIMAL FOOD.
(From a French Work.)
The animal productions that serve the purpose of
nutrition are the muscles, membranes, and all the
tissues of the ox, the sheep, the pig, the hare, the
rabbit, poultry, wild fowl, &c., a gieat variety of
fish ; both sea and fresh water fish ; together with
shell-fish and Crustacea. In each of these substances
reside certain principles which concur with remark-
able energy in the formation of chyle, and the quick
reparation of all the powers : these are gelatine, fibrine,
albumine, and ozmasome; but these nutritive prin-
ciples do not always exist in the same proportions.
They vary according to the age and species of the
animal. Gelatine abounds in young animals; in
adult animals, fibrine predominates. Albumine is
found, more or less, in all. Osmasome is scarcely
present at all in the calf and pullet; but in the ox,
and other full-grown animals, it is very abundant.
It is to this substance that broth owes its colour, its
aromatic odour, and agreeable flavour.
In examining their mode of action on the animal
economy, it will not be difficult to distinguish the
cases in which one or the other of these substances
should be preferably employed.
Gelatine is obtained by a decoction in water of all
the soft parts of animals ; but particularly the skin,
the tendons, membranes, and glands. The bones,
also, being pulverised, furnish a great quantity. It
does not digest as easily as is commonly believed.
This mistaken notion causes it to be lavished on the
convalescent, and generally on those whose failing
strength is the result of a bad state of the organs of
digestion. It is very nourishing, but too relaxing.
When it does digest, it speedily produces an embon-
point, the character of which is, the paleness and
softness of the flesh. Gelatine is never strictly proper,
unless all the animal functions are in a healthy state,
and in cases where a meagre state of body is not the
result of any derangement of the stomach. For tem-
peraments in which the white fluids predominate, its
relaxing properties should be corrected by aromatics
or some other stimulant, such as wine, spices, &c. ;
the mode of action is then totally different, and it
becomes essentially tonic and strengthening.
Fibrine constitutes more particularly the flesh of
animals; it is generally easy of digestion. It fur-
nishes a large proportion of chyle, and leaves little
or no residuum ; it enriches the constitution by in-
creasing the size and strength of all the tissues,
quickens the sensibility, and gives energy and acti-
vity to all the functions. But to obtain these results,
it is necessary that the fibrine should be united with
osmasome; otherwise its effects will be nearly the
same as those of all the white parts of animals.
Albumine, of which the white of an egg is wholly
formed, and the greater part of the yolk, is coagulated
and hardened by heat to a degree that resists all
efforts of digestion. Its nutritive properties, ana-
logous to those of milk, are not to be relied on,
unless when it is employed in a half-liquid state,
whether alone, or combined with other animal sub-
stances, then it is easily digested and assimilated.
Osmasome is obtained by the washing in cold water
of any brown flesh : an extract is made of it, which
is not nutritious, but which acts on the vital (pro-
prietes) properties ina manner eminently stimulating,
it penetrates the whole system of circulation, excites
the power of assimulation, and determines the chyli-
ferous vessels to appropriate to themselves a greater
proportion of the nutritious principles. Now, it will
be readily conceived that the flesh of adult animals,
containing at one e fibrine and gelatine, the properties
of which are advantageously modified by osmasome ,
would be the good best adapted for lymphatic con-
stitutions, where there is a disposition to scrophula,
and in all cases Avhere the organs require stimulus ;
but, for the same reason, it should be taken very
moderately by those who are inclined to plethora, to
active haemorrhages, or other acute affections. It
would be particularly injurious to nervous tempera-
ments, and wherever there is any irritation of the
organs of sensibility, unless tempered by a mixture of
vegetable food.
What we have said of the flesh of animals applies
equally well to poultry. Domestic fowl have white
flesh, similar in its effects to that of young quadru-
peds ; whereas wild fowl and game in general have
brown flesh, more resembling that of adult quadrupeds.
Fish do not, like birds and quadrupeds, contain the
principle which stimulates the digestion; they con-
tain, however, a large proportion of nutriment, the
absorption of which is more or less easy in different
individuals. There are, indeed, persons who can
only eat particular kinds of fish ; and others to whom
it is altogether injurious, and in whom it excites an
ardent thirst. The immediate action of fish on the
animal economy, is not direct, like that manifestly
produced by any aliment in which osmasome predo-
minates; neither are the fluids and solids renewed,
as by gelatine or fibrine; but in a manner much more
calm. To this property, may, in a great measure, be
referred the constitution of our seamen ; it is also to
the mild and tranquil digestion of this food that we
may attribute the uniformity of their actions and
habits. , .
Some authors have written that fish produce obsti-
nate cutaneous affections, ulcers, adynamic fevers,
and scurvy. We think that there has not been suft


cient distinction made here between the salt and
smoked fish and the fresh. Sharp seasonings may
affect the skin and the vital fluids; we have often
observed these effects ; but scorbutic diseases, and
cutaneous affections, in general, are extremely rare
among our seamen ; whence we conclude, that fish is
a wholesome food, proper in all cases not requiring
a stimulating diet.
Of shell-fish, oysters, alone, seem to be easy of
digestion, but are rather relaxing.
The crustacea —the crab, lobster, and shrimp—are
difficult of digestion. Though they all form a solid
and very nourishing food, they ought not to be used
without aromatics and spices sufficiently stimulating
to prevent indigestion; even then, they are only
fit for strong and vigorous stomachs.
( Vegetable Food, in an early number.)
The late Event at Windsor. —The very early and un.
fashionable hour at which her Majesty happened to be confined,
caused a tremendous commotion among the ministers. The
intelligence reached town at a few minutes after six o’clock;
and a Treasury messenger was pulling away at Sir Robert
Peel’s area-bell by half-past; while a policeman was furiously
kicking at Lord Lyndl.urst’s door by five-and twenty minutes
to seven. The premier, who was the first to hear the noise,
popped his head out of his bedroom window, and ascertained
the cause of his rest having been disturbed. Lord Lyndhurst,
who had laid down with his clothes on, in expectation of the
event, was soon on his way to the station of the Great Western ;
while the Bishop of London, in St. James’s-square, hearing a
terrific tattoo at his knocker, turned round upon his pillow,
and half muttering, •* Humph! another party from the Cafe de
L’Europe,” was presently locked once more in the arms of
Morpheus. The Duke of Wellington was roused by his valet
with the intelligence, and merely replied, “ Yes —yes. There’s
plenty of time: these matters always take time!” after which
he went through bis customary toilette without any particular
haste. The Earl of Liverpool, to whom the news came last,
would not believe the messenger, and took it cool; while Lord
Wharncliffe got hold of a blunt razor, and lost three quarters
of an hour in a desperate effort to shave himself. The scene
at the station at Paddington was very amusing. Earl Delawarr
was the first who reached the spot, and he waited nearly half,
an hour before he ventured to order a special train on his own
responsibility. He was subsequently joined by Lord Lyndhurst,
Sir James Graham, and two others, who thinking he had
ordered a special train, omitted to do so, and, after waiting
some time, inquiries were made, and the mistake having been
found out, it was unanimously declared to have been “ very
stupid of Delawarr.” They were no sooner off than Peel and
Stanley came rushing breathlessly into the office, and ordered
“special trains for two,” which were taken and paid for; but
the regular train having gone on first, the special train was
compelled to follow at a very sober pace to the Slough station.
The Duke of Wellington arrived next, and did not find out how
wrong he had been in his calculation, and how little he knew
about these matters till he got to Slough, when he found no
carriage waiting for him, and he was compelled to jump into
a hack fly, exclaiming, “ Onwards! Charge, forward—charge !”
an injunction he found had not been forgotten when he paid
the bill furnished to him. Lord Wharncliffe, who had waited
to shave, and the Earl of Liverpool, came on leisurely enough
by the regular train, their lordships not having thought it
worth while to pay for a special one. A tremendous deal of
quizzing took place on the return home at the expense of the
Bishop of London, who was leisurely walking up from the
station to Windsor Castle when all the Cabinet Ministers were
coming back again. The Bishop felt so ashamed at being so
late, that he would not show his face at the Castle, and was
easily persuaded to join the others to go back altogether; so
that, with the jokes at the Bishop’s expense, the Ministers!
made up a very jolly party for the journey home again.—
Punch.
Original Poetry.
TRANSLATION
Of one of the Choral Odes of the “ CEdipus Tyrannus” of
Sophocles.
’lo» yeveai fiporwv, K.r.X.
A vapour, a vision, a dream of de’usion
Are the boasted enjoyments of man altogether !
He lives but to witness bis constant confusion ;
He flourishes only to wither.
Thy fate, fallen sovereign ! —thy fate must convince us, —
That fleeting and vain is the bliss of mortality.
Else the wisest of men and the mightiest of princes
Must have tasted that bliss in reality.
Yet, never more swiftly passed cloud from the firmament,
Than vanished the glory that garnished thy brow.
Once our bulwark and boast, once our Thebes’s chief
ornament,—
Where thine honours and happiness now ?
Gone! perished for ever ! The sunshine of fortune
Had gleamed but to deepen the shades of remorse.
Oblivion had dropped for a season her curtain, —•
To make the catastrophe worse.
Time does not sleep, although conscience may slumber :
Time has evolved the sad deeds thou hast done :—■
Deeds that a parricide dreads to remember, —
That shame an incestuous son !
The ghost of thy father for ever will haunt thee : —•
The ghost of thy mother corrode all thy comfort:—
The pangs of remorse shall for ever torment thee:
Misery make thee her consort.
Would, CEdipus ! would I had never beheld thee !
For then might my days have passed on without cars .
Thy grandeur had never in hollow hope held me ;
That hope never sunk to despair.
It forms a pleasing and profitable exercise for the classical
student to attempt at times to turn a few lines of a Greek or
Latin poet into English rhythm. One important use in reading
Greek and Latin at school, is the formation of a taste for
ornate modes of expression ; and one of the best aids in the
cultivation of this taste will be found in the practice of trans-
lating the metrical compositions of Classical authors into the
measured phraseology required by the laws of versification in
our own language.
It is for the sake of bringing this consideration before your
youthful readers, that I have ventured to send you the above
school-boy sample. The senate and the bar are open to the
ambition of Australian students, and they are likely to find
early attention to the formation of a correct and ornate style
of composition eminently conducive t<> future success.
As a trial of skill in translation, and as an exercise of taste
among such of your readers as may feel interested in these
remarks, may I solicit, through your pages, a translation into
English verse of the following lines ?
Arma gravi numero, violentaque bella parabam
Edere, materia conveniente modis.
Par erat inferior versus : risisse Cupido
Dicitur, atque unum surripuisse pedem.
Quis tibi, sseve puer, dedit hoc in carmine juris ?
Pieridum vates, non tua turba, sumus.
Quid, si praeripiat flavae Venus arma Minerva?,
Ventilet accensas flava Minerva faces?
Quis probet in silvis Cererem regnare jugosis
Lege pharetratae virginis arva coli ?
Crinibus insignem quis acuta cuspide Phcebum,
Instruat, Aoniam Marte movente lyram ?
Sunt tibi magna, puer, nimiumque potentia regna:
Cur opus affectas, ambitiose, novum ?
An, quod übique, tuum ? tua sunt Heliconia Tempe ?
Vix etiam Phoebo jam lyra tuta sua est.
P. P.


MR. WARNER’S DISCOVERY.
(From Punch.)
We have been favoured by Mr. Warner with an
interview on the subject of his grand discovery, when
the following dialogue took place between ourselves
and the modest enthusiast, who only wants half a
million of money as a “ bird in hand” before he lets
the minister know what he has got “in the bush”—
that is to say in the brains under his hair.
Punch received Mr. Warner in the office in
Wellington-street. The time chosen was daybreak,
in order that the “ great secret” might not be over-
heard; and our boy ingeniously placed his cap over
the opening of our letter-box, lest a syllable should
escape through the aperture.
Punch began by asking what the nature of the
invention really was ; when Mr. Warner explained as
follows:
“ I take,” said the inventor, “ an explosive sub-
stance, and forming it into a solvent, I make a fulcrum,
by an irregular process; I then apply the whole to an
opposing entity, and if that entity is a fleet or a
fortress, I either blow it up, or I do not.”
Punch. — “ Ah—ah! I see what you mean : you
dip the end of a diaculous preparation into a washy
diluent; and having applied the phosphate of pota-
toes to the ammonia of pickled cabbage, you accomplish
what you wish. That is it, if I apprehend you
rightly.”
Mr. Warner confessed that was the nearest ex-
planation he could give of his discovery.
Punch.— “ And now—as to its powers. You
undertake to blow up a fleet at six miles’ distance ?”
Mr. Warner. —“I do.”
Punch. —“ Do you mean to say that you could blow
up the Bachelor steam boat in its moorings at
Battersea, if you were standing at the six-mile-stone
on the Great North Road!”
Mr. Warner would also pledge himself to that, if
£400,000 were paid into his hand and secured to
him.
Punch. —“I see your meaning exactly. You have
only to convey a steam of electro-galvanism down a
given avenue of an unlimited length, and by placing
the aim within your reach you gain your object. For
instance you could empty the treasury at one blow,
spiking the public pocket, and scuttling the pay-office
if every facility were given you. Am I right in the
view I take of your meaning ?”
Mr. Warner. —“Quite so. The fulcrum I wish to
get into my hands is £400,000; and then I must go
a long way off when I will give a specimen of what
I meant by my discovery.”
Punch. —“ You are a credit, sir, to your country.
The trick, which I fully comprehend, is a capital one;
and it is very hard that they will not give you an
opportunity of playing it.”
The interview ended by Punch promising to make
the merits of the thing known in their true force ;
and advised that Sir F. Burdett should be applied to
as the most fit person to advocate the claims of the
inventor in parliament.
AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY.
Little doubt is there that this fine science will
eventually take the lead of all others, and we are
therefore anxious to give our readers an insight into
some of its most valuable principles. Every farm
will ere long have its doctor as well as its bailiff, and
the old game of “ soldier, sailor, tinker, tailor,
plouyhboy, apothecary ,” &c., evidently contemplating
a connexion between chemists and clodhoppers.
To show w T hat has already been done by agricul-
tural chemistry, we give a few cases which have
occurred within our own practice :
Case the first. —We were called in to a grass platt
which was suffering severely from the mange. The
patient was lying in a back yard at Lambeth ; and
our first care was to order a strong decoction of rain
from the water-butt. This caused a slight relaxation
of the hard crustaceous substance that had formed
itself on the surface ; and we recommended gentle
friction the next day with an iron roller. The
patient still continuing much the same we resorted to
rather a desperate remedy. We caused cuttings to be
brought from a healthy body of green meadow, and
filled in the parts of the grass platt where the mange
had been most destructive in its ravages. We soon
had the satisfaction of perceiving that our experiment
had succeeded, and having ordered further friction
with a roller for a few days, we left the patient with
a certainty that a cure had been effected.
Case the second. — We were called in one day to
attend a China Rose, which had been losing its leaves
very fast, and was the last of a family of six that had
all prematurely perished. Perceiving that the un-
healthy plant was rapidly wasting to a mere stick,
we determined on trying strong measures at once, and
ordered a constant watering with salts and senna,
which we thought might open the buds, of which
there were still two remaining. This treatment
having completely failed, we declined further atten-
dance, having first recommended the trial of a warmer
climate, by taking the afflicted patient from the
window-sill to the chimney-piece.
Case the third. — The case to which we are now
about to allude is rather curious. It appeared that
some potatoes had been set in the usual way in a strip
of ground at the back of a house in the city, and had
not yet shown themselves, though five months had
transpired. This was evidently a surgical and not a
chemical case, which induced us to resort to the
spade, a thing we seldom do but in the last extremity.
At the first thrust of the instrument into the earth, w'e
were met by a hard bony substance, which greatly
obstructed us. Having withdrawn the spade, we
plunged it into another part, and we soon had the
satisfaction of feeling that we were getting on the
root of the disease, and in a few moments we
succeeded in extricating a small piece of potatoe,
which was found to be exactly in the same condition
as when it was first planted. We ordered magnesia
for the ground, and left the rest to nature, which -we
have often found materially to aid our efforts. We
should be happy to relate further cases, but we have
not been called in, and have therefore nothing to make
a report about.
MENTAL SCIENCE—NEW AND IMPORTANT
DISCOVERY.
“ Mr. Punch” begs to inform his numerous readers,
that he has invented a new system of artificial me-
mory, to he called “ Mnemonics for the many,”—the
only thing, almost, except food and clothing, which
the said Many are in want of.
The principle on which his system is based is that
of associating facts with sensations. Inasmuch as


every blockhead has nerves of feeling, its applica-
bility will obviously be universal, “ Mr. P.” trusts,
therefore, that he has not christened it presumptuously.
The following illustrations will sufficiently ex-
plain its nature ;
Suppose the fact to be impressed on the mind to
be, that the Alexandrian library was burnt 8.C., 47.
Let the student, in the act of committing it to me-
mory, thrust a needle, as far as he can, into any con-
venient part of his person.
“ Gunpowder treason,” the boys sing on the sth of
November, “ shall never be forgot.” To make sure of
that, let him, as he learns that it was detected on the
day above-mentioned, A. D., 1605, cause a poker
healed to redness, to be applied to the same region.
Should the piece of chronology to be remembered be,
that the French Bastile was captured by the mob,
July, 14, 1789 ; or that, on such and such a parish,
the foundation stone of an English one was laid, by
such and such a churchwarden, assisted by so and so,
the beadle ; —apply a blister behind one of the ears.
You are charged to deliver a message to a friend
in case of meeting him. Put a few sharp pebbles in
your boots before you pull them on.
Your wife requests you to call at the milliner’s, and
request that her pelerine may be sent home directly.
Hun a small splinter underneath your nail, and let
it remain there till you have fulfilled your commission
You continually forget to wind up your watch of
a morning. Soak your tooth-brush, overnight, in a
decoction of aloes.
You have to pay money into your bank in the city,
and other business, which is likely to escape your re-
collection, to transact in the neighbourhood. Put an
open penknife in your pocket, in such a way that
you may be sure to run your hand against the point of
it in going to take your cash out.
ou are to look in at the doctor’s on your way,
and desire him to come and see your child, w r hich
has something the matter with it. Button a few
stinging-nettles up in your breeches next the skin.—
Or rub a little cowhage between your fingers—or de-
posit a grain of dust in your eye— or stick a wafer
on the end of your nose.
Stiff serrated collars, tight w r aistcoats, and all other
items of dress, may be made to furnish memorandums.
For this purpose, also, Mr. Punch would recommend
a hair shirt as a “ valuable article.”
But why, it may be asked, not have recourse to
sensations of the pleasing class ? Because these are
few and evanescent. The paths of learning must be
strewed with thorns—not flowers.
Mr. Punch takes no credit to himself for this dis-
covery ; but he would just observe that, like that of
gravitation, it was the result of accident. The cir-
cumstance that led to it was similar. The fall of an
apple to the ground gave rise to Newton’s idea; the
fall of a cudgel on his head occasioned that of Punch.
He thinks, by the by, that the sage who was killed
by an oyster dropped on his pate by a crow, would,
had the said oyster not made rather too strong an
impression, have been beforehand with Sir Isaac; at
least, that he ought to have been so.
What would have set some people crying, set Mr
Punch thinking. He thought—what was also, in
part, a matter of personal experience—how great is
the efficacy, as a remedy for a short memory, in the
case of a youthful student, of the “ argumentum ad
dunes, otherwise called the <f argumentum a pos-
teriori physicum seu corporeum.” He recollected
likewise the advice so often given to learners, to
“ take pains.” From these and similar facts he
deduced his system.
He does not promulgate it rashly, and without
having duly tested it. On the contrary, he has taken
care to verify it by experiment. Fie keeps a tiger,
who used continually to forget to shut the door
behind him. Having over and over again reminded
him, verbally, of this omission, to no purpose, he at
length accompanied his remonstrance, one day, by
an energetic appeal to the quarter above alluded to,
in the shape of a certain impulsive application there-
unto of the anterior extremity of the right foot. The
act of neglect was never afterwards repeated.
Other experiments in point, too numerous to men-
tion, he also tried ; some of them at great personal
hazard. For instance, pulling, on one occasion in
illustration of his system, an irascible gentleman’s
nose, he was suddenly stretched, with his own flat-
tened like the ace of hearts, on the floor. His inven-
tion is not only applicable to the human race, but
even to the lower animals ; and he is certain that from
it the greatest ass is capable of deriving benefit.
Mr. Punch hopes that his liberality in thus unre-
servedly making his discovery known, instead of
trying, as “ some” people would, to sell it, will be
properly appreciated, and that he will be ranked with
the other eminent benefactors of the “ Many” who
adorn the present day.
N.B. The proposed plan is especially recommended
to the singing classes at Exeter Hall.
The Philosophy of Drawing. Sketches of scenery
however defective as works of art, are amongst the precious
memorials of which time, the great destroyer, is unable to
deprive us. In them the traveller lives again, through all the
joys and sorrows of his distant wanderings. He treads again
the mountain-path where his step was never weary. He sees
the sunshine on the snowy peaks which rise no more to him.
He hears again the shout of joyous exultation, when it burst
from hearts as young and buoyant as his own ; and he re-
members, at the same time, how it was with him in those by-
gone days, when, for the moment, he was lifted up above the
grovelling cares of every-day existence.— Mrs. Ellis.
An Indian’s Ingenuity.—A Spaniard having stolen a
horse from an Indian, the latter convicted him of the offence
by a very ingenious plan. He complained to a judge, who had
the Spaniard, with the horse, brought before him. The
prisoner swore that the animal belonged to him, and that he
had always had it, so that the judge did not find himself in a
position to convict. He was even about to return the horse to
him, when the Indian said, “ If you will allow me, I will prove
that the animal belongs to me.” Immediately he pulled off his
cloak, and covering the horse’s head, asked the Spaniard of which
eye the horse was blind ? The robber was much embarrassed at
the question, but nevertheless, not to delay the court, he re-
plied at hazard that it was the right eye. The Indian,
uncovering the head, exclaimed, “ The horse is not blind*
either of the right eye or the left.” The judge immediately
decided that the animal was his.— Chamber s' Journal.
An Awkward Man. —lt is not unusual in life to see an
awkward fellow making a false step. He attempts to recover
himself, and makes another ; the second is followed by a third,
and down he comes. Here is an anecdote as an illustration of
successive awkward positions:—A gentleman said to Lord
North, “Pray, my lord, who is that ugly woman sitting there?”
“ That is my youngest sister,” said his lordship. “ Good God!”
said the gentleman, “I don’t mean her, I mean the next.”
“ That is my eldest sister,” replied his lordship. “ I protest,”
cried the gentleman, “ I don’t mean her, but the third.”—
That is my wife,” said Lord North. “ The devil!” cried the
gentleman. “You may well say that,” said Lord North, “for
she is as ugly as one. But, Sir, console yourself; we are the
ugliest family in England.”


C OMMERCIAL REVIEW.
Ik commencing the year, no feature of improvement is appa~
rent in commercial affairs, and the markets generally are still
characterized by inactivity—the amount of business transacted
during the week has been limited chiefly to supply the return
wool drays, or, immediate requirements. The export trade is
in a flourishing state.
Wool. —This market presents a very lively aspect, alike
encouraging to the growers and shippers. It may be quoted a
shade lower in price in consequence of the reduction in bank
exchange upon England to per cent discount.
Tallow. —Is much enquired for by shippers, and sells
readily from £26 to £28 per ton.
Hides. —Are saleable from 7s. to 8s. Gd.
Wheat. —Samples of colonial growth are realizing from
Ss. to 3s. 3d. per bushel, the millers manifest a desire to buy
at present rates; importations from Van Diemen’s Land, being
subject to duty, are becoming scarce.
Flour remains without alteration in priee.
Maize. — Is very scarce, and in great demand. The supply
received during the week, coastwise, has been readily disposed
of to the dealers at 2s. per bushel, and a further advance in
price may be expected. Tenders for the supply of 6,000
bushels are required by the commissariat.
Hay. —The market has been well supplied during the week,
and prices have declined.
Bacon, cheese, and hams, are scarce and would find buyers
at fair prices.
B. S. LLOYD.
Commission Agent, Bridge-street.
January 15th, 1845.
Shipping Intelligence.
ARRIVALS.
January B.—The American barque Levant, 225 tons, Cap-
tain H. Russell, from the Whaling Grounds.
January 10. —The barque Fame, 200 tons, Captain Sarjent,
from the Whale Fishery.
January 10.—The schooner Edward, 87 tons, Captain Tal-
lan, from Boyd Town, Twofold Bay, with wool, &c.
January 12. —The steamer Sovereign, 110 tons, Captain
Cape, from Moreton Bay on Friday last, with 130 bales wool,
January 13.—The barque Rose, 421 tons (of Halifax), Cap-
tain Creighton, from the whaling grounds.
January 13.—The steamer William the Fourth, 53 tons,
Captain Wiseman, from the Clarence River the 10th instant.
January 14.—The steamer Maitland, 103 tons, Captain Par-
sons, from Port Macquarie.
DEPARTURES.
January B.—The steamer James Watt, Captain Taggart, for
Hobart Town via Wollongong, Kiama, Jervis Bay, and Boyd
Town.
January B.—The steamer Thistle , Captain Mulhall, for
Moreton Bay.
January 11.—The steamer Shamrock, Captain Gilmore, for
Broulee, Boyd Town, Port Phillip and Launceston.
January 14 The steamer Sovereign, Captain Cape, for
Moreton Bay.
Colonial Hiterarg journal,
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
rTIHE TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION to this Journal
.1. are, Three Shillings per Quarter, in Town ; Country,
Three Shillings and Sixpence ; payable , in every case,
in advance .
Terms for Advertisements :—For one inch, and under
Three Shillings; and One Shilling for every additional inch,
each insertion. Advertisements will be received until Two
o’Clock on Wednesday afternoon; but cannot bs withdrawn
later than Nine o’Clock on Wednesday morning. Adver-
tisements must specify on the face of them the number of
times they are to be inserted, or they will be continued till
countermanded, and charged accordingly.
COLOURED DAGUERREOTYPES ! S
49, HUNTER STREET,
( Two doors from O' Connell-street.)
MR. G. B. GOODMAN has great pleasure to announce
to the public, that he has just received from the
Patentee in England, the new process, lately discovered, of
colouring the Daguerreotype Portraits, and having already
executed some very beautiful likenesses in this style, he will
be happy to submit them to the inspection of those who will
favour him with a visit.
It may be as well for general information to observe, that
these Portraits are taken almost instantaneously, and produce
as faithful a representation of the face and figure as is pre-
sented by standing opposite a mirror, being in fact the reflec-
tion itself fixed permanently in the glass or polished surface,
thus producing in effect a “ Second Self."
The pictures effected by this art are superior to the finest
engravings for delicacy of shadowing and minuteness of
delineation, and have hitherto only wanted colour to make
them perfect, which grand desideratum has been at length
achieved, and Mr. G. B. Goodman hastens to apprise the
public of this most important addition.
On account of the depression of the times the price wil
still be limited to one guinea for the coloured likeness, includ-
ing a handsome gilt and morocco case.
Specimens to be seen at Mr. Isaac Levey’s, Draper, George-
street, and Mr. Aldis’s, Tobacconist; the Bank of Australia;
and at the Photographic Gallery, 49, Hunter-street.
Sydney, November 25.
FUNERALS FURNISHED,
BY JOHN* HIX.li, JIT XI.,
AT HIS FURNISHING .ESTABLISHMENT,
No. —, King- street, Sydney.
To the Mechanics and Poorer Class of people of the City of
Sydney.
JOHN HILL, JUN., begs to inform the above-mentioned
body of people, that in consequence of the reduced state
of times, he will conduct FUNERALS at the following low
rates, where every attention will respectfully be paid.
Full-mounted Coffin, with use of Hearse £2 0 0
Child’s Coffin, with use of Mourning Coach .... 1 10 0
TO WOOLGSIOW2R3 AHD SSTTX.S2SS.
THE undersigned, feeling grateful for the measure of
support lie has hitherto received, begs to acquaint his
country constituents and other friends, that to meet the present
depressed state of the markets, his sale of charges in future,
for the sale of Colonial Produce, will be as under:
Wool, 1 § per cent.,
Grain, Hay, & T c., &c., above £5O, per cent.
Ditto ditto, under £so, 5 per cent.
Having had considerable experience in the sale of Wool
and Colonial Produce generally, the undersigned pledges him-
self to obtain the highest rates on all consignments entrusted
to him. Account sales rendered promptly, and the nett
proceeds remitted therewith, or appropriated as advised. The
present mode of selling Wool, &c , without reserve by auction,
has many disadvantages, not unfrequently failing- to prove a
fair criterion of the market value, as a combination or the
buyers may take place prejudicial to the interests of the
seller; again it is not generally understood, (or implied by
advertisement), until made manifest in the return of account
sales, that all Wool, &c., sold by public auction is subject to
A DIRECT TAX OF 1| PER CENT.!
Orphan dues, which with the addition of auctioneer’s com-
mission, advertising charges, &c., makes a clear charge of at
least three per cent. It must therefore be self evident
that the sale of Wool by private contract, through an ex-
perienced agent, is a much safer and cheaper medium to those
parties interested. _
F B. S. LLOYD,
General Commission Agent,
10, Bridge-street.
