

COLONIAL
LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
“ NON TUA TE MOVEANT, SED PUBLICA VOTA.’
Vol. I. No. 20.]
SYDNEY, THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1844.
[Price 4d.
VIRTUE INSEPARABLE FROM TALENT.
How often have a man’s talents been adduced as an
alleviation of, or even an excuse for, whatever vicious
shades of character he may be possessed of. It is
even believed by some, that a want of worldly pru-
dence, or some other quality equally necessary to the
welfare of ordinary mortals, is an inevitable mark of
intellectual superiority, or genius, as it is sometimes
designated. What a degrading notion is this ; what
an injurious supposition ! How contrary to reason
and revelation! The highest talents are worse than
useless without the guiding influence of an honest,
virtuous heart. Talent without conduct is the ship
without compass, in constant danger of misdirection,
delay, and damage. Just as a man without prin-
ciple is liable to be tossed about by every wind or
doctrine. On the other hand, nothing can be more
worthy of admiration than talent accompanied by
upright conduct, and adorned by purity of principle.
In the one case, the good and honorable results of a
man’s abilities are rot only negatived by the vice
and folly by which they are accompanied—but the
vice and folly itself only shew the more glaring and
contemptible by connexion with so noble an endow-
ment. In the other instance, talent certainly suffers
no slight, and experiences no debasement. The
possessor is honoured both for his superior abilities,
and his personal moral v'orth ; and, in fact, it will be
found that, however much men may be temporarily
dazzled by the beams of genius apart from morality,
they will finally accord but the more admiration to
qualities of the mind, in proportion as they are cor-
rected and guided by sentiments of virtue.
At a time when intellect is so active, and even
mechanics seek to be philosophers, it is highly im-
portant that right ideas should be entertained re-
specting the personal behaviour of men possessed of
superior intellectual powers. It is certainly an ab-
surdity to suppose that such men are likely to be
blinded to the social and moral responsibilities de-
volving upon them. It is far more likely that a man
should, in proportion to his talents, be the more able
to appreciate fully, and follow up faithfully, the
highest principles of moral conduct. Nor is this to
be controverted by the lamentable fact, that there
have been, and perhaps alw r ays will be, instances of
the most splendid intellects being obscured by a
course of vicious conduct of a more than ordinary
and deeper dye. The causes of such mere exceptions
will be found in some defect unconnected with their
intellectual temperament; and it must be allowed that
habits or principles of a debasing nature are totally
inconsistent with the exercise of the higher mental
faculties.
Without alluding to these particular instances, what,
then, can be adduced as the cause of this erroneous
notion, namely, that in order to be thought possessed
of ability, it is necessary to take down a peg in the
standard of morality ? We shall not be far wrong in
replying, that, in the great majority of cases, it is
affectation. The truth is, that most vicious habits
arise from affectation, and not, in the first instance,
from real impulse. A spirit of imitation induces one
and another to follow the example of a third. Without
■ any actual liking for drinking, swearing, smoking,
how are thousands and tens of thousands deluded into
these habits from the impulse of affecting that which
appears fine and manly in others. The poor youth,
however sickened and disgusted he may be at his
first cigar, would scorn to give in—no ! he could not
stand the sneers of his companions, the laugh of those
who have but lately, with an endurance worthy of a
better cause, overcome the same nausea. Smoke he
must, or suffer the triumphant contempt of his peers
in folly. Another swears because there was some-
thing invigorating and pleasing in the sound of an
oath uttered by a friend one day. A third drinks,
not because he likes drink—no, he abhors it perhaps,
but his imagination is dazzled by the joys of revelry.
He thought such and such a party seemed so full of
glorious excitement, so imbued with a feeling of
general philanthropy, that he longs to join them. In
the same manner, in most of the instances which may
be found of men of talent \vho have become degraded
by their vices, they are in reality but pretenders, or
little better, who seek, with great anxiety, to ruin
themselves into a character for genius. Such men
are only worthy of pity : they lose far more than they
obtain ; they lose the name of virtuous members of
society, and gain nothing, for very few are deceived
by their desperate and unavailing efforts. However
much the use of liquor may increase loquacity, and
appear to brighten the ideas, its effect is absolutely
deadening when the toper takes a pen in hand. The
steady accurate exertion of the mental powers, which
is required for composition, is lost, and, beyond a few
rambling sentences, proceed he cannot.
Talent is unquestionably given for the benefit of those
who are less favored, and all mental powers, not dedica-
ted in some w r ay to this end,are uselessand even injurious.
No one can calculate the effect which ensues from per-
sonal character and example in a man of talent; and


it may be affirmed that, in order for his literary effusions
to be calculated to please without injuring, still more to
improve, his readers, his own personal character must
be rather above than below the usual standard. The
habits of a man must necessarily tinge his thoughts,
and therefore we should look for worthy sentiments
only from the man of worth. The minister of God’s
mysteries, whose life is irreproachable, will certainly
gain more converts, and receive greater respect and
attention to his instructions than the unworthy stew-
ard. A volume composed by a man of known ster-
ling character is certainly better read, and more
trusted in its details, than a volume composed by a
man notorious in private life for being addicted to
falsehood. Again, if while reading an effusion re-
markable for brilliant fancy and pathetic feeling, the
reader be informed that it emanated from a man who
really had no heart, a vain, frivolous idler, or a cold,
unfeeling sensualist, would he read it with the same
interest } would he not rather throw it down with
contempt, and turn for relief to the honest simple
virtues of some secondary personage ?
We cannot hesitate to acknowledge that the most
brilliant talents can afford no excuse for crime, great
or venial, and that genius in its highest degree, so
far from being lessened, or debased, by correct con-
duct, is not merely capable of receiving an additional
lustre, but can only be said to be profitably exercised,
or properly to exist, when guarded and conjoined with
correct and virtuous sentiments. All seeming in-
stances to the contrary are false and empirical.
THE BOOKSELLER.
Before the invention of printing, and of the manufacture of
paper from linen, books were so scarce and dear, as to be
placed beyond the reach of all but persons of considerable
opulence. Even if the materials of which they were made had
been as cheap and as plentiful as paper is at present, the
labour of multiplying copies in manuscript, would always have
kept them exceedingly rare and high in price.
Hence, in all the nations of antiquity, learning was almost
exclusively confined to people of rank, and the lower orders
were only rescued from total ignorance, by the reflected light
of their superiors, and raised above the rudeness of barbarism,
by that partial improvement which men of cultivation and re-
finement necessarily impart, in a greater or less degree, to all
within the sphere of their influence. The Papyrusr a kind of
broad-leaved rush, being the cheapest material for the recep-
tion of writing, was of course in most general use. When
this could no longer be procured, in consequence of the con-
quest of Egypt by the Saracens, parchment was then substituted,
but it was so difficult to be procured, that it was customary to
erase the writing of. an ancient manuscript to make room for
some other composition. In this manner, many of the best
works of antiquity were lost for ever. Books were for many
ages so scarce, that to present a book to a religious house, was
thought so valuable a donation as to merit eternal salvation
and it was offered on the altar with great ceremony.
The making of paper, such as we now see it, is dated by
the generality of writers at the eleventh or twelfth century
but the honour of the discovery is claimed by different and
distant nations. The first book, which was printed on paper
manufactured in England, came out without a date about 149<3
or 1496, about fifty years after the invention of printing,
although for a long while afterwards it was principally brought
from abroad. 6
The art of printing necessarily produced the Bookseller.
Indeed we believe that the earlier printers were also book-
sellers, as are some of the printers of the present day; but the
lapse of years, and a variety of other circumstances, have
generated many trades and subdivisions of trades, to our fore-
fathers wholly unknown, Even the trade of a bookseller is
considerably subdivided, at least in London.
1 he bookseller of the present day is a person of considerable
importance in the republic of letters, more especially if he
combines those particular branches of the trade denominated
Proprietor and Publisher : for it is to such men our men of
genius take their productions for sale : and the success of
works of genius very frequently depends upon their spirit,
probity, and patronage. It is also to such men that the read-
ing public generally are indebted for almost every important
work of a voluminous kind. Those bulky and valuable
volumes, the various Encyclopaedias, would never have made
their appearance had not a bookseller, or a combination of
booksellers, entered upon the speculation by employing men
of science aud learning in the various departments of those
l works, and embarking large capitals in the undertaking. The
I sums of money employed In such concerns as these are im-
! mense, and the regularity and dispatch with which some of
| these extensive bookselling concerns are conducted, exceed
the conception of those persons wholly unacquainted with the
affair.
In London, Paternoster-row has been, for a long period,
| notorious as the place in which some of these large establish-
ments are carried on, and where a great number of booksellers’
shops and warehouses abound. The Stationers’ Company have
a Hall not far distant from it, where a copy of every book must,
by Act of Parliament, be deposited when published, in order to
secure to the proprietor or author of it the sole profits arising
from its publication and sale. A copy must also be deposited
in the British Museum, the two Universities, and some other
public establishments, amounting to eleven in number. In
London, also, and some other large bookselling establishments
in the kingdom, books in the wholesale way are sold in quires:
lists of such sales are constantly handed about amongst the
large dealers in books.
Some booksellers in London confine their trade to particular
departments. There are law booksellers, medical booksellers,
foreign booksellers, religious booksellers, booksellers of edu-
tion and books; others deal in old books only, and
some principally in rare and scarce books : the rarity being in
numerous instances the criterion of value. A rare copy of the
Decameron of Boccacio was sold a few years ago, for upwards
of two thousand pounds, when the book might have been bought
in London at the same time, recently printed, for a few
shillings ! The form of a book, the style of the printing, and
the name of the printer, add materially to the value of these
conceits. The books called black-letter books are also much
esteemed.
The sale of some books of fancy and genius, in the present
age, if not in price, has exceeded in number the books of any
former period. We may mention those of Lord Byron, Sir
Walter Scott, and Mr. Thomas Moore, as instances of the
extraordinary and rare good fortune of these gentlemen.
Whilst other works, perhaps of equal, although ot course of
very different merit, have sunk almost dead-born from the
press.
The sale of periodical publications is in Great Britain of
considerable importance: it consists of Magazines, Reviews,
and a variety of other productions published for the most part
monthly. Other works are frequently divided into Numbers
and published weekly, in order to make the price, when they
are bulky, come easy to the purchasers. By these means an
infinity of books, and a vast body of information, have been
diffused throughout the community, and which have made the
trade of a bookseller one possessed of the greatest interest and
importance to mankind.
It is by the diffusion of knowledge by books that all species
of tyranny and oppression can be most effectually resisted ; it
is by the diffusion of books, that mankind become acquainted
with their moral and religious duties; and it is also by books
that men generally become distinguished for their intelligence,
probity, and worth ; for where the diffusion of knowledge by
books has not taken place, there we most commonly find the
relative and social duties at a very low ebb.
Newspapers are another species of books very valuable in
their kind ; but they are not often sold by Booksellers.
WIT MADE EASY;
OR, A HINT TO WORD-CATCHERS.
A. Here comes 8., the liveliest yet most tiresome
of word-catchers. I wonder whether he’ll have wit
enough to hear good news of his mistress. Well, B.;
my dear boy, I hope I see you well.
B. I hope you do, my dear A., otherwise you have
lost your eye-sight.
A. Good. Well, how do you do ?


B. How ? Why as other people do. You would
not have me eccentric, would you?
A. Nonsense. I mean, how do you find yourself .
B. Find myself? Where’s the necessity of finding
myself ? I have not been lost.
A. Incorrigible dog! come now; to be serious.
B. ( Comes closer to A. and looks very serious.)
A. Well, what now ?
B. I am come, to be serious.
A. Come now ; nonsense, B.; leave off this. (Lay-
ing his hand on his arm.)
B. {Looking down at his arm.) I can’t leave off
this. It would look very absurd to go without a
sleeve.
A. Ah, ha! You make me laugh in spite of
myself. How’s Jackson ?
B. The deuce! How’s Jackson! Well, I never
should have thought that. How can Howe be Jack-
son ? “ Surname and arms,” I suppose, of some rich
uncle ? I have not seen him gazetted.
A. Good bye.
B. {Detaining him.) u Good Bye !” What a sudden
enthusiasm in favour of some virtuous man of the
name of Bye ! “ Good Bye !” To think of Ashton
standing at the corner of the street, doating aloud on
the integrity of a Mr. Bye !
A. Ludicrous enough. I can’t help laughing, I
confess. But laughing does not always imply merri-
ment. You do not delight us, Jack, with these sort
of jokes, but tickle us; and tickling may give pain.
B. Don’t accept it then. You need not take every-
thing that is given you.
A. You’ll want a strait-forward answer some day,
and then—
B. You’ll describe a circle about me, before you
give it. Well, that’s your affair, not mine. You’ll
astonish the natives, that’s all.
A. It’s great nonsense, you must allow.
B. I can’t see why it is greater nonsense than any
other pronoun.
A. {ln despair) —Well, it’s of no use, I see.
B. Excuse me: it is of the very greatest use. I
don’t know a part of speech more useful. It performs
all the great offices of nature, and contains, in fact,
the whole agency and mystery of the world. It rains,
It is fine weather. It freezes. It thaws. It (which
is very odd) is one o’clock. “ It has been a very
frequent observation.” 7?goes. Here it goes. How
goes it ? (which, by the way, is a translation from the
Latin, Eo, is, it; Eo , I go; is, thou goest; it, he or
it goes. In short—
A. In short, if I wanted a dissertation on it, now’s
the time for it. But I don’t; so, good bye.— {going)
—I saw Miss M. last night.
B. The devil you did ! Where was it ?
A. {To himself) —Now I have him, and will re-
venge myself. Where vjas it, eh? Oh you must
know a great deal more about it than I do.
B. Nay, my dear fellow, do tell me. I’m on
thorns.
A. On thorns ! Very odd thorns. I never saw a
thorn look so like a pavement.
B. Come now, to be serious.
A. {Comes close to B. and looks tragic.)
B. He, he ! Very fair, egad. But do tell me
where was she ? How did she look ? Who was with
her'?
A. Oh, ho ! Hoo was with her, was he ? Well, I
wanted to know his name. I could not tell who the
devil it was. But, I say, Jack, who's Hoo ?
B. Good. He, he! Devilish fair! But now,
my dear Will, for God’s sake, you know how interested
I am.
A. The deuce you are ! I always took you for a
disinterested fellow. I always said of Jack 8., Jack’s
apt to overdo his credit for wit; but a more honest
disinterested fellow I never met with.
B. Well then, as you think so, be merciful. Where
is Miss M. ?
A. This is more astonishing news than any. Ware
is Miss M, I know her passion for music ; but this
wonderful. Good Heavens ! To think of a delicate
young lady dressing herself in man’s clothes, and
going about as a musician under the name of Ware.
B. Now, my dear Will, consider. I acknowledge
I have been tiresome ; I confess it is a bad habit, this
word-catching ; but consider my love.
A. ( Falls into an attitude of musing.)
B. Well,
A. Don’t interrupt me. I am considering your
love.
B. I repent; lam truly sorry. What shall Ido ?
—{Laying his hand on his heart ) —l’ll give up this
cursed habit.
A. You will? —Upon honor?
B. Upon my honour.
A. On the spot ?
B. Now, this instant. Now and for ever.
A. Strip away then.
B. Strip ? for what ?
A. You said you’d give up that cursed habit.
B. Now, my dear A., for the love of every thing
that is sacred ; for the love of your own love—
A. Well, you promise me sincerely?
B. Heart and soul.
A. Step over the way, then, into the coffee-house,
and I’ll tell } ou.
Street-sweeper. Plase your honour, pray re-
member the poor swape,
B. My friend, I’ll never forget you, if that will be
of any service. I’ll think of you next year.
A. What again!
B. The last time, as I hope to be saved. Here, my
friend; there’s a shilling for you. Charity covers a
multitude of bad jokes.
Street-sweeper. God send your honour thousands
of them.
B. The jokes or the shillings, you rascal ?
Street-sweeper. Och, the shillings. Divil a bit
tha bad jokes. I can make them myself, and a
shilling’s no joke anyhow.
A. What! really silent! and in spite of the dog’s
equivocal Irish face ? Come, 8., I now see you can
give up a jest, and are really in love; and your
mistress, I will undertake to say, will not be sorry to
be convinced of both. Women like to begin with
merriment well enough ; but they think ill of a man
who cannot come to a grave conclusion.— Leigh
Hunt's Journal.
Good Advice. —Sir Francis Bacon was wont to commend
the advice of a plain man of Ruxton, who sold brooms. A
proud lazy young fellow came to him for a besom on trust, to
whom the old man said, Friend, has, thou no money ! Borrow
of thy back and thy belly, they’ll never ask thee for’t —I should
be dunning thee every day.


History.
ANCIENT HISTORY: SECTION XIX.
f’flgf'ri&Ai* REFLECTIONS ARISING FROM THE HISTORY OF
V/OI the STATES OF GREECE.
1. The revolutions which the states of Greece under-
dhtX tfcfe situations into which they were thrown
by^feeir^alternate connexion and dilference3 with
their wars with foreign nations, were
so various, that their history is a school of instruction
itic-al J Science •. as there is scarce a doctrine in
that important science which may not find an example
hr v a'A ilHßtfattion from their history. The surest test
6¥ !j tHe (^tr; utif or falsehood of abstract principles of
is‘their application to actual experience and
of nations.
2u ; Oppression which the states of Greece
their ancient despots, a set of tyrants
Ifibir elevation to violence, and whose rule
was subject to no control, or constitutional restraints,
was assuredly a most justifiable motive for their estab-
lishing a new form of government, which promised
them ShP 3 &#joyment of greater political freedom.
We believe, too, that those new forms of government
hi*HeTi*#m£cFby their virtuous legislators in the true
spifit-i'bf 'patriotism. But as to the real merits of
those political fabrics, it is certain that they were
far from corresponding in practice with what was
expected from them in theory. We seek in vain,
either in the history of Athens or Lacedaemon, for
tne beautifhl°idea of a well-ordered commonwealth.
The revolutions of government which they were ever
experiencing, the eternal factions w r ith w'hich they
were etowomjd, plainly demonstrate that there was a
the structure of the machine, w'hich
precluded 1 possibility of regular motion. The
condition of the people under those governments was
such as partook more of servitude and oppression than
that ( of -th4''Subjects of the most depotic monarchies.
The slaves formed the actual majority of the inhabi-
states of Greece. To these, the free
citizens behaved with the most inhuman rigour : nor
conduct to’Thdse of their own condition, from bondage
being a consequence of the contraction of debts even
by- affcete 1 nifkiV Thus a great proportion even of the
free Were actually subject to the tyrannical
control of their fellow-citizens. Nor were their
idefttjrTih&fcj&k’ih the actual enjoyment of a rational
liberty and independence. They were perpetually
divided inW'fidetions, w’hich servilely ranked them-
s£He§ torer th 6 banners of the contending chiefs of
the Gbpuliud ( rr &nd these maintained their influence
over their partisans by the most shameful corrup-
tion and‘ bribery, of which the means were supplied
m funder of the public. The whole was,
lbft nothing of a free or ingenuous nature
©b&'dltinh of individuals, nor any thing that
fuMhyhcomium to a real advocate for the
digiVHy-of ‘liutWan nature.
Such w r as the condition of the chief republics of
antiquity. Their governments promised in theory
what They red in practice—the political
happrfre&> Wf citizens.
1 • ®^®^ ac y/says Dr. Fergusson/men must
must res Pect the rights of their
they must be satisfied with that
degree of consideration they can procure by their
abilities fairly measured against those of an opponent;
they must labour for the public without hope of
profit; they must reject every attempt to create a
personal dependence’.—This is the picture of a republic
in theory. If we reverse this picture in every Single
particular, and take its direct opposite, we shall have
the true portrait of a republican government in
practice.
4. It is the fundamental theory of Montesquieu’s
Spirit of Laws, that the three distinct forms of go-
; vernment, the monarchical, despotical, and republican,
j are influenced by the three separate principles of
| honour, fear, and virtue; and this theory is the
j foundation on which the author builds a great part of
his political doctrines. That each of these principles
is exclusively essential to its respective form of go-
vernment, but unnecessary and even prejudicial in
the others, is a position contrary both to reason nnd
to truth. No form of government can subsist where
every one of those principles has not its operation.
The admission of such a theory leads to the most
mischievous conclusions ; as, for example, that in
monarchies the state dispenses with virtue in its
officers and magistrates; the public employments
ought to be venal ; and that crimes, if kept secret,
are of no consequence.
5. It is in the infant periods of the Grecian history,
that we are to look for those splendid examples of
patriotism and heroic virtue, which the ardent mind
of uncorrupted youth will ever delight to contemplate.
The most remarkable circumstance which strikes us
on comparing the latter with the more early periods
of the history of the Greeks, is the total change in
the genius and spirit of the people. The ardour of
patriotism, the thirst of military glory, the enthu-
siasm of liberty, decline with the rising grandeur and
opulence of the nation ; and an enthusiasm succeeds
of another species, and far less worthy in its aim ;
an admiration of the fine arts, a violent passion for
the objects of taste, and for the refinements of luxury.
—This leads us to consider Greece in the light in
which, after the loss of her liberty, she still continued
to attract the admiration of other nations.
THE SPLENDID ANNUAL.
BY THEODORE HOOK.
Literature, even in this literary age, is not the
ordinary pursuit of the citizens of London, although
every merchant is necessarily a man of letters, and
j underwriters are as common as cucumbers. Not-
withstanding, however, my being a citizen, 1 am
tempted to disclose the miseries and misfortunes of
! my life in these pages, because having heard the
“Anniversary” called a splendid annual, I hope
for sympathy for its readers, seeing that I have been
a “ splendid annual" myself.
My name is Scropps—l am an Alderman—l was
Sheriff—l have been Lord Mayor—and the three
great eras of my existence were the year of my
shrievalty, the year of my mayoralty, and the year
after it. Until I had passed through this ordeal I
had no conception of the extremes of happiness and
wretchedness to which a human being may be car-
ried, nor ever believed that society presented to its
members, an eminence so exalted as that which I
once touched, or imagined a fall so great as that
which I experienced.


I came originally from that place to which persons
of bad character are said to be sent—l mean Coventry,
where my father for many years contributed his share
to the success of parliamentary candidates, the hap-
piness of new married couples, and even the grati-
fication of ambitious courtiers, by taking part in the
manufacture of ribands for election cockades, wedding
favours, and cordons of chivalry; but trade failed,
and like his betters, he became bankrupt, but, unlike
his betters, without any consequent advantage to him-
self; and I, at the age of fifteen, was thrown upon
the world with nothing but a strong constitution, a
moderate education, and fifteen shillings and eleven
pence three farthings in my pocket.
With these qualifications I started from my native
town on a pedestrian excursion to London ; and
although I fell into none of those romantic adven-
tures of which I had read at school, I met with more
kindness than the world generally gets credit for,
and on the fourth day after my departure, having
slept soundly, if not magnificently, every night, and
eaten with an appetite which my mode of travelling
was admirably calculated to stimulate, reached the
great metropolis, having preserved of my patrimony,
no less a sum than nine shillings and seven pence.
The bells of one of the churches in the city were
ringing merrily as I descended the heights of Islington,
and were it not that my patronymic Scropps never
could, under the most improved system of cam-
panology, be jingled into anything harmonious, I
have no doubt I, like my great predecessor Whit-
tington, might have heard in that peal a prediction
of my future exaltation ; certain it is I did not; and,
wearied with my journey, I took up my lodgings for
the night at a very humble house near Smithfield, to
which I had been kindly recommended by the driver
of a return postchaise, of whose liberal offer of the
moiety of his bar to town I had availed myself at
Barnet.
As it is not my intention to deduce a moral from
my progress in the world at this period of my life, I
need not here dilate upon the good policy of honesty,
or the advantages of temperance and perseverance, by
which I worked my way upwards, until after merit-
ing the confidence of an excellent master, I found
myself enjoying it fully. To his business I suc-
ceeded at n.s death, having several years before, with
his sanction, married a young and deserving woman,
about my own age, of w r hose prudence and skill in
household matters I had long had a daily experience.
In the subordinate character of his sole domestic
servant, in which she figured lvhen I first knew her,
sne had but few opportunities of displaying her in-
tellectual qualities, but when she rose in the world,
and felt the cheering influence of prosperity, her
min , like a balloon soaring into regions where the
bright sun beams on it, expanded, and she became, as
sne remains, the kind unsophisticated partner of mv
sorrows and my pleasures, the friend of my heart
and the guiding star of mv destinies.
To be brief: Providence blessed my efforts and
increased my means; I became a wholesale dealer
in everything from barrels of gunpowder down to
pickled herrings ; in the civic acceptation of the
\ 1 ™ as a merchant; amongst the vulgar I am
called a drysalter. I accumulated wealth ; with my
fortune my family also grew, and one male Scropps
and four female ditto, grace my board at lea t once
in every week ; for I hold it an article faftli 1 V<j>
have a sirloin of roasted beef upon on
Sundays, and all my children round partake
of it: this may be prejudice—no matter—so
he could afford it, my poor father did so" llefere *meu;
I plead that precedent, and am not
4 "joy anf biifi
custom.
Passing over the minor gradations of
removal from one residence to another, tft
ment of this warehouse, the rebuilding o| ! ih|P, tnjp
anxiety of a canvass for common councilman, acfivjity
in the company of which 1 am
and vestries, and ward meetings, and alrfhe.other
pleasing toils to which an active citizen is J l[ei
us come at once to the first marked
—the year of my shrievalty. The announcementof
my nomination and election filled Mrs. S. withjfeuTght;
and when I took my children to Great Queen-stieef!
Lincoln’s Inn Fields, to look at the gljr 1
brushing up for me, I confess I felt proud,and happy
to be able to show my progeny the arms of, TlonnhuL
those of the Spectacle Maker’s Company,
the Scroppses (recently found at a tr 1 viaT r expWnse)
all figuring upon the same pannels. Th^ n yooKe3
magnificent upon the pea-green ground, ajnT /; tftfi
wheels, “ white picked out crimson, ”1 oo chaste,
and the hammercloth, and the fringe, ana the ;
toons, and the Scropps’ crests all looked so rtibvmi
the silk linings and white tassels, and the
the yellow cushions and the crimson carpet fooxed
so comfortable, that, as I stood contempidWnff'We
equipage, I said to myself, “What have done 'o
deserve this? —O that my poor father were, aliVeJo
see his boy Jack going down to Westrninsliir, io
chop sticks and count hobnails, in a
this!” My children were like mad things j a¥d'm
the afternoon, when I put on my first new biown
court suit (lined like my chariot, with siSfff
and fitted up with cut steel buttons,
effect, it all appeared like a dream ; the sw
I tried on, every night for half an hour aMr~I fl sifit
up to bed, to practise walking with it, w^vlryin-
convenient at first; but use is second naturW; anWso
by rehearsing and rehearsing I made mysAfJJeffeqt
before that auspicious day ivhen sheriffs
geese prevail—namely, the twenty-ninth 01 djr Sep-
tember. uocfs § till J
The twelve months which followed de-
lightful, for independently of the > positive h quo urbane?
eclat they produced, I had the Mayoralty 1 §i nl w°o?
spectu (having attained my aldermanic
immense majority the preceding year,) and'isf feel}
during the sessions to sit in my box at the oifPMifcy)
with my bag at my back and my bouquet' [my
book, my thoughts were wholly devoted to
of contemplation ; culprits stood trembling 9^ £ lbar
the verdict of a jury, and I regarded them Wotljcc&i-
victs knelt to receive the fatal fiat of the
and I heeded not their sufferings, as I wa&eTfi
Lord Mayor seated in the centre of the bench,
the sword of justice stuck up in a gobleL over°%fs
head; there, thought I, if I live two yearsj°rfiall 7
sit; however, even as it was, it was very agreeable.
When executions, the chief drawback to igh¥*
happened, I found, after a little seasoning, 'Ctook
the thing coolly, and enjoyed my toast anfiJHßg?
the patients were turned off, just as if
happened ; for, in my time, we hanged at and


breakfasted at a quarter after, so that without much
hurry, Ave were able to finish our muffins just in time
for the cutting down at nine. I had to go to the
House of Commons with a petition, and to Court
with an address —trying situations for one of the
Scroppses —however, the want of state in parliament,
and the very little attention paid to us by the mem-
bers, put me quite at my ease at Westminster ; Avhile
the gracious urbanity of our accomplished monarch
on his throne made me equally comfortable at St.
James’. Still I was but a secondary person, or rather
only one of tA\ r o secondary persons —the chief of
bailiffs and principal Jack Ketch; there was a step
to gain ; and, as I often mentioned in confidence to
Mrs. Scropps, I Avas sure my heart Avould never be
still until I had reached the pinnacle.
Behold at length the time arrived! Guildhall
croAvded to excess—the hustings thronged—the alder-
men retire—they return—their choice is announced
to the people —it has fallen upon John Ebenezer
Scropps, Esq., alderman and spectacle-maker—a
sudden shout is heard—“ Scropps for ever !” resounds
—the whole assembly seems to vanish from my sight
—I come fonvard—am invested with the chain—l
tow—make a speech—tumble over the train of the
Recorder, and tread upon the tenderest toe of Mr.
Deputy Pod—leave the hall in ecstacy, and drive
home to Mrs. Scropps in a state of mind bordering
upon insanity.
The days wore on ; each one seemed as long as a
week, until at length the eighth of November arrived,
and then did it seem certain that I should be Lord
Mayor —I Avas sworn in—the civic insignia were
delivered to me—l returned them to the proper officers
—my chaplain was near me—the esquires of my
household were behind me—the thing Avas done—
never shall I forget the tingling sensation I felt in
my ear Avhen I Avas first called “My Lord.” I even
doubted if it Avere addressed to me, and hesitated to
answer —but it was so —the reign of splendour had
begun—and, after going through the accustomed
ceremonies, I got home and retired to bed early, in
order to be fresh for the fatigues of the ensuing day.
Sleep I did not—how Avas it to be expected ?
Some part of the night I Avas i,n consultation Avith
Mrs. Scropps upon the different arrangements ; set-
tling about the girls, their places at the banquet, and
their partners at the ball; the Avind down the chimney
sounded like the shouts of the people ; the cocks
crowing in the meAVS at the back of the house I took
for trumpets sounding my approach ; and the ordinary
incidental noises in the family I fancied the popguns
at Stangate, announcing my disembarkation at West-
minster. Thus I tossed and tumbled until the long
Avished-for day daAvned, and I jumped up anxiously
to realize the visions of the night. I Avas not long at
my toilet; I was soon shaved and dressed ; but just
as I was settling myself comfortably into my beautiful
brown broadcloth inexpressibles, crack Avent some-
thing, and I discovered that a seam had ripped half
a foot long. Had it been consistent Avith the dignity
of a Lord Mayor to sAvear, I should, I believe, at
that moment, have anathematized the offending tailor ;
as it was, AAhat was to be done ?—I heard trumpets in
earnest, carriages draAving up and setting doAvn;
sheriffs and chaplains, mace-bearers, train-bearers,
SAVord-bearers, Avater-bailiffs, remembrancers, Mr.
Common Hunt, the toAvn-clerk, and the deputy tOAvn-
clerk, all bustling about —the bells ringing—and I
late, with a hole in my inexpressibles! There was
but one remedy—my wife’s maid, kind, intelligent
creature, civil and obliging, and ready to turn her
hand to anything, came to my aid, and in less than
fifteen minutes, her activity, exerted in the midst of
the confusion, repaired the injury, and turned me out
fit to be seen by the whole corporation of London.
When I was I tapped at Mrs. Scropps’
door, w r ent in, and asked her if she thought I should
do: the dear soul, after settling my point lace frill
(which she had been good enough to pick off her own
petticoat on purpose) and putting my bag straight,
gave me the sweetest salute imaginable.
“ I wish your lordship health and happiness,”
said she.
“Sally,” said I, “your ladyship is an angel;”
and so having kissed each of my daughters, who were
in progress of dressing, I descended the stairs, to
begin the auspicious day in which I reached the apex
of my greatness. Never shall I forget the bows, the
civilities, the congratulations, sheriffs bending before
me, the recorder smiling, the common serjeant at my
feet, the pageant was intoxicating ; and when, after
having breakfasted, I stepped into that glazed and
gilded house upon wheels, called the state-coach, and
saw my sw 7 ord-bearer pop himself into one of the
boots, with the sword of state in his hand, I was lost
in ecstacy, I threw myself back upon the seat of the
vehicle with all imaginable dignity, but not without
damage, for in the midst of my ease and elegance I
snapped off the cut steel hilt of my sword, by acci-
dentally bumping the whole weight of my body
right, or rather, w 7 rong, directly upon the top of it.
But what was a sword-hilt or a bruise to me ? I
was the Lord Mayor—the greatest man of the greatest
city of the greatest nation in the world. The people
realized my anticipations, and “Bravo, Scropps!”
and “Scropps for ever!” again resounded, as we
proceeded slowly and majestically towards the river,
through a fog, which prevented our being advanta-
geously seen, and which got down the throat of the
sword-bearer, who coughed incessantly during our
progress, much to my annoyance, not to speak of the
ungrateful movements w'hich his convulsive barkings
gave to the red velvet scabbard of the official glave as
it stuck out of the wdndow of the coach.
We embarked in my barge; a new 7 scene of splendour
awaited me, guns, shouts, music, flags, banners, in
short, every thing that fancy could paint or a water-
bailiff provide ; there, in the gilded bark, was pre-
pared a cold collation—l ate, but tasted nothing,
fowls, fates, tongue, game, beef, ham, all had the
same flavour ; champagne, hock, and Madeira were
all alike to me —Lord Mayor was all I saw, all I
heard, all I swallowed ; every thing was pervaded by
the one captivating w 7 ord, and the repeated appeal to
“ my lordship” was sweeter than nectar.
At Westminster, having been presented and re-
ceived, I desired, I, John Ebenezer Scropps, of
Coventry, I desired the Recorder to invite the Judges
to dine with me—l, who remember, when two of the
oldest and most innocent of the tw r elve came the
circuit, trembling at the sight of them, and believing
them some extraordinary creatures upon whom all the
hair and fur I saw grew naturally—l, not only to ask
these formidable beings to dine w'ith me, but, as if I
thought it beneath my dignity to do so in my proper


person, deputing a judge of my oAvn to do it for me ; j
I never shall forget their boAVs in return, Chinese j
mandarins on a chimney-piece are fools to them. j
Then came the return, Ave landed once more in the |
scene of my dignity—at the cortfer of Fleet Street we
found the Lady Mayoress Avaiting for the procession
there she was, Sally Scropps (her maiden name was
Snob) —there Avas my own Sally, with a plume of j
feathers that half filled the coach, and Jenny and j
Maria and young Sally, all with their backs to my
horses, which Avere Rawing the mud and snorting and |
smoking like steam engines, with nostrils like safety-
valves, and four of my footmen hanging behind the
coach, like bees in a swarm. There had not been so
much riband in my family since my poor father’s
failure at Coventry.—And yet hoiv often, over and
over again, although he had been dead more than
twenty years, did I, during that morning, in the
midst of my splendour, think of him , and Avish that
he could see me in my greatness —Yes, even in the
midst of my triumph I seemed to defer to my good
kind parent, in heaven, as I hope and trust, as if I
were anxious for his judgment and his opinion as to
hoAv I should perform the arduous and manifold
duties of the day.
Up Ludgate Hill we moved, the fog grew thicker
and thicker, but then the beautiful women at the
windows —those up high could only see my knees and
the paste buckles in my shoes; every now and then
I boAred condescendingly to people I had never seen
before, in order to show my courtesy and my chain
and collar, Avhich I had discovered during the morning
shone the better for being shaken.
At length we reached Guildhall, as I crossed the
beautiful building, lighted splendidly, and filled with
Avell dressed company, and heard the deafening shouts
which rent the fane as I entered it, I really Avas over-
come, I retired to a private room, refreshed my dress,
rubbed up my chain, which the damp had tarnished,
and prepared to receive my guests. They came, and,
shall I ever forget it? —dinner was announced; the
bands played “ 0 the roast beef of old England.”
Onwards we went, a prince of the blood, of the blood
royal of my country, led out my Sally, my oavu Sally,
the Lady Mayoress ! the Lord High Chancellor handed
out young Sally, I saw it done, I thought I should
have choked ; the Prime Minister took Maria ; the
Lord Privy Seal gave his arm to Jenny ; and my
wife’s mother, Mrs. Snob, was honoured by the pro-
tection of the Right Honourable the Lord Chief
Justice of the King’s Bench. —Oh, if my poor father
could but have seen that !
It would be tiresome to dAvell upon the pleasures of
the happy year thus auspiciously begun, in detail;
each month brought its delights, each week its fes-
tival ; public meetings under the sanction of the Right
Honourable the Lord Mayor; concerts and balls
under the patronage of the Lady Mayoress ; Easter
and its dinner, Blue-coat boys and buns ; processions
here, excursions there.—Summer came, and then we
had swan-hopping up the river, and white-baiting
down the river ; Yantlet Greek below, the navigation
barge above ; music, flags, streamers, guns, and
company ; turtle every day in the Aveek; peas at a
pound a pint, and grapes at a guinea a pound ; dab-
bling in roseAvater served in gold, not to speak of the
loving cup, Avith Mr. Common Hunt, in full dress,
at my elbow : ray dinners were talked of, Ude grew
jealous, and I Avas i ’olized.
The days, which before seemed like weeks, weie
now turned to minutes : scarcely had I swalloAVed
my breakfast before I was in my justice-room ; and
before I had mittimused half-a-dozen paupers for
beggary, I Avas called away to luncheon : this barely
over, in comes a deputation or a despatch, and so on
till dinner, which Avas barely ended before supper
was announced. We all became enchanted Avith the
Mansion House ; my girls grew graceful by the con-
fidence their high station gave them ; Maria refused
a good offer because her lover chanced to have an ill-
sounding name ; we had all got settled in our rooms,
the establishment had begun to knoAV and appreciate
us : we had just become in fact easy in our dignity
and happy in our position, when lo and behoid ! the
ninth of November came again, the anniversary of my
exaltation, the consummation of my downfall.
Again did we go in state to Guildhall, again were
Ave toasted and addressed, again Avere Ave handed in,
and Jed out, again flirted -with cabinet-ministers and
danced Avith ambassadors, and at two o’clock in the
morning drove home from the.scene of gaiety to our
old residence in Budge Row: Never in this world
did pickled herrings and turpentine smell so poAver-
fully as on that night when we entered the house ;
and although my wife and the young ones stuck to
the drinkables at Guildhall) their natural feelings
w 7 ould way, and a sort of shuddering disgust
seemed to fill their minds on their return home—
the passage looked so narrow, the drawing-rooms
looked so small, the staircase seemed so dark, our
apartments appeared so loav —howe'ver, being tired,
we all slept well, at least I 3id, for I wms in no
humour to talk to Sally, and the only topic I could
think upon before I dropped into my slumber, Avas
a calculation of the amount of expense which I had
incurred during the just expired A?ear of my
greatness. v /.
In the morning we assembled at breakfast, a note
lay on the table, addressed — u Mrs. Scropps, Budge
Roav.” The girls one after the other took it up, read
the subscription, and laid it down again. A visiter
was announced, a neighbour and a kind friend, a
man of wealth and importance, what were his first
Avords ? they Avere the first I had heard from a
stranger since my job—“ How are you, Scropps,
done up, eh?”
Scropps ! no obsequiousness, no deference, no
respect ; no “ my lord, I hope your lordship passed
an agreeable night, and how is her ladyship and
your lordship’s amiable daughters ?” not a bit of it !
“ Hoav’s Mrs. S. and the gals." This %vas quite
natural, all as it had been, all perhaps as it should
be—but how unlike what it zvas, only one day before !
The very servants, who, when amidst the strapping,
stall-fed, gold-laced lackeys of the Mansion House
(transferred with the chairs and tables from one Lord
Mayor to another) dared not speak nor look, nor say
their lives were their own, strutted about the house
and banged the doors, and talked about their “ Missis,"
as if she had been an apple-woman.
So much for domestic miseries ; I went out, I was
shoved about in Cheapside in the most remorseless
manner ; my right eye had a narroAv escape of being
poked out by the tray of a braAvny butcher’s boy, who,
Avhen I civilly remonstrated, turned round and said,
“ Vy, I says, who are zjou I vonder, as is so partiklar
about your hysight" I felt an involuntary shudder,


to-day, thought I, “ I am John Ebenezer Scropps,
two days ago I was Lord Mayor ; and so the rencontre
ended, evidently to the advantage of the bristly brute.
It was however too much for me, the effect of con-
trast was too powerful, the change too sudden, and I
determined to go to Brighton for a few weeks to re-
fresh myself, and be weaned from my dignity.
We went, we drove to the Royal hotel: in the hall
stood one of his Majesty’s ministers, one of my former
guests, speaking to his lady and daughter : my girls
passed close to him, he had handed one of them to
dinner the year before, but he appeared entirely to
have forgotten her. By and bye, when we were going
out in a fly to take the air, one of the waiters desired
the fly-man to pull off, because Sir Something Some-
body’s carriage could not come up, it was clear that
the name of Scropps had lost its influence.
We secluded ourselves in a private house, where
we did nothing but sigh and look at the sea. We
had been totally spoiled for our proper sphere, and
could not get into a better ; the indifference of our
inferiors mortified us, and the familiarity of our
equals disgusted us, our potentiality was gone, and we
were so much degraded, that a puppy of a fellow had
the impertinence to ask Jenny if she was going to
one of the Old Ship balls. “Of course,” said the
coxcomb, “ I don’t mean the ‘ Almacks,’ for they are
uncommonly select.
In short, do what we would, go where w 7 e might,
we were outraged and annoyed, or at least thought
ourselves so ; and beyond all bitterness was the re-
flection, that the days of our dignity and delight
never might return. There were at Brighton no less
than three men who called me Jack, and that, out of
flies or in libraries, and one of these, chose occasion-
ally > by way of making himself particularly agreeable,
to address me by the familiar appellation of Jacky.
At length, and that only three weeks after, my fall,
an overgrown tallow-chandler met us on the Steyne’
and stopped our party to observe, “as how he thought
he owed me for two barrels of coal tar, for doing over
his pigstyes. This settled it, we departed from
Biighton, and made a tour of the coast; but w T e never
rallied ; and business, which must be minded, drove
us before Christmas to Budge Row, where we again
settled down.
Maria has grown thin, Sarah has turned methodist,
and Jenny, who danced with his Excellency the Por-
tuguese Ambassador, who was called angelic by the
Right Honourable the Lord Privy Seal, and who
moreover refused a man of fortune because he had an
ugly name, is going to be married to Lieutenant
Stodge, on the half-pay of the Royal Marines, and
what then ?—I am sure if it were not for the females
of my family I should be perfectly at my ease in my
proper sphere, out of which the course of our civic
constitution raised me. It was unpleasant at first •
but I have toiled long and laboured hard ; I have
done my duty, t and Providence has blessed my works.
If we were discomposed at the sudden change in our
station, I it is who was to blame for having aspired
to honours which I knew were not to last. However
the ambition was not dishonourable, nor did I dis-
grace the station while I held it. Indeed I ought to
apologize for making public the weakness by which
we were all affected ; especially as I have myself
already learned to laugh at what we all severely felt
at first—the miseries of a Splendid Annual
INDEX VERBORUM VITANDORUM:
Or, a list of Words, Phrases, &c., which are to be avoided by
all correct Readers, Spellers, Speakers, and Writers.
No. 111.
PARAGOGE.
A Par ago ge adds that, to the end,
Which does nor sense nor sound at all amend.
Error.
a chicken,
an eulogy,
an ewe,
an* union,
armfuls,
bles* ye,
chiefes#,
decanter it,
dontc* you do it,
extremes#,
height*,
in generally,
is h she ?
juss* shew me,
lawr,
lesser,
licoris*,
my lires’ end,
ni she youth,
nonplus*,
note* yet,
overplus*,
ruler, (to rule with,)
spermaceti oil,
spoonfuls,
such an one,
this* year,
trai#,
yes*, surely,
Correction.
a chick,
a eulogy,
a ewe.
a union,
arms full,
bless ye.
chief.
decant (verb) it.
don’t you do it.
extreme,
height,
in general,
is she.
just shew me.
law.
less.
licorice.
my life’s end.
nice youth.
nonplus.
not yet.
overplus.
rule.
spermaceti,
spoons full,
such a one.
this year.
trai[t] (French.)
yes, surely.
* becomes An (1) before all vowels, except, in cne case,
o, [as in “ such a one,”] long u, [as in “ a union,” “ a use,”
&c.,J eu, [as in “ a eulogy,”] ew, [as in “ a ewe,”] and y,
[as in “ a youth,” &c.] : (2) before h in all unaspirated words,
[as “ an tumble man,” “ an hen,” “ an hour,” “ an honor”
&c.] : (3) before most trisyllabic and polysyllabic substantives
or adjectives, beginning with li; as “an habitual custom,”
“ an /hypothesis,” &c.
Varieties.
“Woman’s Love.” —There is a principle in woman’s love
that renders it impossible for her to be satisfied without
actually doing something for the object of her regard I
speak only of woman in her refined and elevated character
Vanity can satiate itself with admiration, and selfishness can
feed upon services received; but woman’s love is an ever
bowing and inexhaustible fountain, that must be perpetually
imparting from the source of its own blessedness.
rallp/°thp A «V F • rßU w~^ tNewJerSey ’ they liave a n actress,
called the Pinging Wonder,” who lias been known to run
up the chromatic scale so fast, that the organ, which ought to
have accompanied her, stopped for want of wind.
A Sister’s Loy E .—Beautiful is the love of a sister, the kiss
that hath no guile, and no passion: the touch is purity and
brmgeth peace; satisfaction to the heart, and no fever to the
pulse. . Beautiful is the love of a sister, it is moonlight on our
path ; it hath light, but no heat; it is of heaven, and sheds its
peace upon the earth.
Flowers of Loveliness.— There are flowers that burst
upon us, and startle the eye with the splendour of their beautv •
we gaze until we are dazzled, and then turn away, remembering
nothing but their gorgeous hues. There are others that
refresh the traveller by the sweetness they diffuse—but he has
to search for the source of his delight. He finds it imbedded
amongst green leaves; it may be less lovely than he had anti-
cipated, in its form and color, but oh ! how welcome is the
memory of that flower, when the evening breeze is again
made fragrant with its perfume. It is thus that the unpre-
tending virtues of the female character force themselves upon
our regard, so that the woman herself is nothing in comparison
h Jji ,l ler attnbuf es : and we remember less the celebrated
belle, than her who made us happy.
ptv Y Ilke * young s P endt hrift ?—Because it


The Moralist.
RICH AND POOR.
The man to whom God hath given riches, and blessed with a
mind to employ them aright, is peculiarly favoured, and highly
distinguished.
He looketh on his wealth with pleasure, because it affordeth
him the means to do good.
He seeketh out objects of compassion ; he inquireth into
their wants; he relieveth with judgment, and without osten-
tation.
He assisteth and rewardeth merit; lie encourageth ingen-
uity, and liberally promoteth every useful design.
He carrieth on great works ; his country is enriched, and
the labourer is employed ; he formeth new schemes, and the
arts receive improvement.
He consideretli the superfluities of his table as belonging
to the poor of his neighbourhood, and he defraudeth them not.
The benevolence of his mind is not checked by his fortune ;
he rejoiceth therefore in riches, and his joy is blameless.
But woe unto him that heapeth up wealth in abundance,
and rejoiceth alone in the possession thereof.
That grindeth the face of the poor, and consideretli not the
sweat of their brows.
He thriveth on oppression without feeling; the ruin of his
brother disturbeth him not.
The tears of the orphan he drinketh as milk: the cries of
the widow are music to his ear.
His heart is hardened with the love of wealth ; no grief nor
distress can make impression upon it.
But the curse of iniquity pursueth him; he liveth in
continual fear; the anxiety of his mind, and the rapacious
desires of his own soul, take vengeance upon him for the cala-
mities he has brought upon others.
O what are the miseries of poverty, in comparison with the
gnawings of this man’s heart!
Let the poor man comfort himself, yea, rejoice; for he hath
many reasons.
He sitteth down to his morsel in peace ; his table is not
crowded with flatterers and devotirers.
He is not embarrassed with a train of dependants, nor
teazed with the clamours of solicitation.
Debarred from the dainties of the rich, he escapetli also
their diseases.
The bread that he eateth, is it not sweet to his taste ? the
water he drinketh, is it not pleasant to his thirst ? yea, far
more delicious than the richest draughts of ihe luxurious.
His labour preserveth his health, and procureth him a
repose, to which the downy bed of sloth is a stranger.
He limiteth his desires with humility, and the calm of
contentment is sweeter to his soul than all the acquirements of
wealth and grandeur.
Let not the rich therefore presume on his riches, nor the
poor in his poverty yield to his despondence ; for the providence
of God dispenseth happiness to them both.
MORAL MAXIMS.
ALPHABETICALLY arranged.
No. 20.
A wilful man should be very wise.
A willing mind makes a light foot.
A wager is a fool’s argument.
A wise man aims at nothing out of his reach.
A wise man begins in the end ; a fool ends in the beginning.
A wise man endeavours to shine in himself; a fool, to out-
shine others.
A wise man gets learning from those who have none them-
selves.
A wise man has more ballast than sail.
A wise man is a great woader.
A wise man is like a spring lock, always more ready to shut
than open. J
A wise man may look like a fool in a fool’s company.
A woman and a cherry are painted for their own harm.
chaT o oraliTvtt e s . Snkt " S ' ri,,g lU:ming tl,rol,gh the P earl
Conversation is the daughter of reasoning, the mother of
bond G f d ‘ e , ! lealt . h of the soul, the commerce of hearts, the
natil° f f lendSb f P ’- 116 noUnshm3nt of c °ntent, and the occu-
pation of men of wit.
dafenYzUy 1 U ° f ,hC S * CUriUes **"*■»• moral dogra-
Select Poetry.
FORGET THEE!
“Forget thee?” If to dream by night, and muse on .%
by day ;
If all the worship deep and wild a poet’s heart can pay;—
It prayers in absence, breathed for thee to heaven’s protec f t g
powers;
If winged thoughts that flit to thee—a thousand in an hour;
If busy fancy blending thee with all my future lot, —
If this thou call’st “ forgetting,” thou indeed shalt be forgot!
“Forget thee?” Bid the forest birds forget their sweetest
tune !
“ Forget thee ?” Bid the sea forget to swell beneath the
moon !
Bid the thirsty flowers forget to drink the eve’s refreshing
dew!
Thyself forget thine “ own dear land,” and its “ mountains
wild and blue;”
Forget each old familiar face, each long remembered spot;
When these things are forgot by thee,—then thou shah be
forgot!
Keep, if thou wilt, thy maiden peace, still calm and fancy-free;
For God forbid thy gladsome heart should grow less glad lor me ;
Yet, while that heart is still unwon, oh, bid not mine to rove,
But let it move in humble faith, and uncomplaining love ;
If these, preserved for patient years, at last avail me not,
Forget me then,—but ne’er believe that thou canst be forgot!
Communicated.
PENSEE A MOI!
I'll think on thee! I’ll think on thee!
To still my bosom’s troubled sea!
’iMid scenes of care, and storm, and strife,
That wait me, in the voyage of life !
To lull the sense of agony
I’ll think on thee! I’ll think on thee !
I’ll think on thee ! when vext and worn
By all the cold world’s heartless scorn ;
When by its weight of care oppressed,
Like wearied bird, I seek a nest
Where some kind wing may shelter me!
I’ll think on thee! I’ll think on thee '.—lbid.
SONNET.
“ They know not what they say.”
Ok ! better ’twere to live in some lone cell,
And breathe existence out irom human ken,
Than, on this fair and lovely earth to dwell,
The sport of envy, and of malice fell—
And be the victims of our fellow men :
’Tis base—’tis ignoble, to idly tell,
With venomed tongue the foibles of each other;
’Twere better far, as sister and as brother,
Frail members all of one great family,
In charity and love to step between,
And try each others’ frailty best to screen—
“ who can see the mote in his own eye ?”
Ah ! better ’twere indeed to cease to be
Than live encircled round by calumny ! — lbid.
ON SEEING A SPRING OF WATER WHOSE SOURCE WAS
IMPERCEPTIBLE.
Gentle stranger! see in me
An emblem of true charity ;
That while my bounty I bestow.
I’m neither seen, nor heard to flow ;
And I have fresh supplies from heaven,
For every cup of water given.- Ibid.
THE GRACES OF THE MIND SUPERIOR TO ALL EXTERNAL
CHARMS.
What is the blooming tincture of the skin
To peace of mind and harmony within ?
What the bright sparkling of the finest eye
To the soft soothing of a calm reply?
Can comeliness of form, or shape, or air,
With comeliness of words or deeds compare?
No ; those at first the unwary heart may gain,
but these, these only can the heart retain.— Ibid.


J3ottcc.
The Editor does not \hold himself responsible for the opinions and
assertions contained in the correspondence and contributions in-
serted in the Colonial Literary Journal.
Notice to dTorrtspontfcnts.
“ Summer’s Return” will be inserted shortly.
“ X’s” communication is acknowledged.
Our Correspondents are requested to observe that the Colonial
Literary Journal Office is now removed fo No. 316, Pitt-
street North, (opposite A. Foss' Chemical Drug , and Grocery
Establishment) where all communications to the Editor may be
forwarded (post paid).
CHARACTERS AND PROPERTIES OF
ALKALIES.
Three substances have been generally ranked under
the head of Alkalies, but many others of vegetable
origin are now proved to be of a similar nature. The
three most perfect alkalies are potash, soda, and
ammonia, all of which turn vegetable blues, green —
and yellows, red ; those that do so permanently are
termed fixed alkalies : ammonia is called the volatile
alkali, because a slight increase of temperature vapo-
rizes the alkali, and the former colour is restored.
The characters are causticity and pungency, and
their most prominent property is, that in combining
with acids, new salts are formed, which salts are
neither acid nor alkaline. Alkalies are produced
by the burning of plants and vegetables. The Arab.s
were the first persons who introduced the alkaline
salts to notice, which they procured from a plant
called Kali, whence the name is derived.
Potash is so called, because it is procured from the
ashes of vegetables, and because originally the ash
was burnt in pots ; it is in common named pearlash,
from the whiteness of its colour. The best w r oods for
making potash are those which contain neither gum
nor resin ; but old oaks, if quite decayed and dry, or
any other woods in that state, are preferred. The stalks
of maize and the husks of grapes are esteemed for this
purpose. When the vegetables are burnt to ashes, the
ashes must be washed repeatedly with Avater, until
the liquid is devoid of all taste. The liquid must
then be filtered and evaporated to dryness, and a salt
will be the residue, which is the potash. It is then
ready for the common purposes to which it is applied,
but for chemical purposes it must undergo more puri-
fication. Potash has a strong affinity for water,
which will dissolve double its w-eight at the ordinary
temperature of the atmosphere. The solution of
potash, when pure, is transparent, and nearly of the
consistence of oil. It combines readily with acids,
and new compounds are thereby formed.
Soda, the other fixed alkali, exists in great abun-
dance in different parts of the earth, ready formed on
the surface of the soil, on the walls of caves and places
under ground. This occurs chiefly in Egypt. The
Spanish call it barilla. The ashes from which soda
is made, are the products of sea-plants and weeds.
They are called kelp. Soda is one of the constituents
of the waters of the ocean, there it is in combination
with the muriatic, or lately named hydrochloric acid,
forming the well-known compound of common salt.
In many of their properties, soda and potash are
alike, and were once considered as the same alkali.
Soda in its greatest purity is in the form of solid
plates, of a greyish ivhite colour. The taste is the
same as potash. After it has become moist by damp
air, it will, ivhen again dried, become a powder, and
when this powder is again moistened it will become
solid.
It has lately been discovered that the bases of
potash and soda are metallic substances. The one is
called potassium, the other sodium. This was not
known until the year 1807- It was discovered by
Sir Humphrey Davy through the agency of electricity,
when by that all-potent heat, potash was converted
into metallic globules, and the name of potassium
was given to the metal. Their globules in combina-
tion with oxygen form the constitution of potash. In
this instance may be seen one of the valuable results
of the important art of chemical analysis ; numerous
and beneficial have been the discoveries thus obtained ;
and the art of 'decomposition has proved equally pro-
ductive of knowledge, as formerly knowledge was
productive of usefulness in combination. As the
newly-discovered metal named platinum w r as said to
be the heaviest substance known in nature, so potas-
sium is the lightest, lighter even than ether. It is
remarkably soft, and will float upon water, its attrac-
tion for oxygen is so great, that on the least exposure
to the air, it becomes potash, it decomposes water the
moment it touches it. It is most amusing to observe
a small piece of this metal thrown upon a basin of
water, -where it instantly attracts the oxygen towards
itself with so much rapidity, that the hydrogen of the
w-ater has not time to escape before it is in a flame,
while the potassium dances about on the surface of the
water as if it were picking up oxygen by grains, the
light of* the hydrogen being emitted at every motion.
When a larger portion is plunged under water, violent
action is effected, the hydrogen all escapes in the form
of a gas, and the potassium remains at the bottom of
the vessel combined with the oxygen, and in that state
is again potash. In consequence of this great attrac-
tion for oxygen, it is a most valuable agent in che-
mistry, and is much used to separate that substance
from others when required. Its discovery is consi-
dered a memorable era in the history of science. The
metal sodium is of the same character, though in a
slighter degree.
Ammonia, the volatile alkali, is in itself a gaseous
compound of nitrogen and hydrogen, evolved by
nature from the putrifaction of animal matter. It is
also called spirits of hartshorn , because it w ? as at one
time largely distilled from the horns of deer. When
ammonia is obtained by art, it is from animal sub-
stances which have not suffered putrifaction or decom-
position. It is also obtained from plants of the
cruciform kind. This alkali was formerly imported
from Egypt, and was then made from the excrements
of camels, it is now commonly distilled from bones
or soot. This alkali forms saline combinations, and
has all the characters of an alkali in an eminent
degree, the salts formed by it are called ammoniacal
salts. Ammonia combined with carbon is in a
concrete form, and called carbonate of ammonia , or
sal volatile. It is found to be very reviving to sick
or fainting persons, and is very convenient for re-
moving acid stains from our wearing apparel, or
furniture.
PAPERS ON GHOSTS.
No. 11.
Many persons are apt to confound these ghostly
appearances with evil spirits-, which, with one or
two exceptions—such, for instance, as Mephistophiles,
in Goethe’s Faust, the devil and Dr. Faustus, the
same on two sticks—are invisible to the human eye.


It is evident, however, that no connexion exists be-
tween them ; and it would be the extreme of folly to
suppose, because ghostly visitors have been known
to seduce men and women to destruction by bodily
appearance, that hence they must be allied to those
infernal demons who entice our minds from that
which is virtuous and good, without making any
visible effort to accomplish their unnatural purpose.
The king of darkness is often said to be at our
elbow under some one of his popular appellations —
sometimes as James Smith, often as Old Nick , and
many other similar and equally familiar cognomens.
It would cost us very little trouble to establish this
fact beyond all manner of doubt; and, indeed, to
shew that a marked difference does exist, we will
allude to one instance, and we take the following,
because it is well known. When Lady—or as we
once heard her designated— Mrs. Macbeth exclaims,
in all the phrenzy by which her mind was agitated
when contemplating her future queenly title—
“ Come to my woman’s breasts,
And take my milk for gall.”
It is evident she addresses her remarkable petition to
the invisible inhabitants of another world, under the
significant appellation of
“Ye murdering ministers.”
Without stopping to enquire into the policy of her
seeking so questionable an alliance, or of her taste
as evinced by the extraordinary exclamation, we
would only remark that it is evident the “ murdering
ministers” did as she wished, although they made no
visible appearance to accomplish their purpose. Hence
we find her in a few minutes after talking- with the
utmost composure of “ dashing her child’s brains out.”
Macbeth appears somewhat startled and astonished at
her wonderful calmness and intrepidity, and wishes
her to “ bring forth male children,” from which we
infer that he had a deep aversion to children of that
particular sex. Indeed, so outrageous was her con-
duct, that both her doctor and women desired an
opportunity of performing that feat which Colonel
Despard has since peremptorily commanded, and
Frederick advocated—namely, “ of standing off the
grass;" or, in the words of the medical gentleman
himself, they were as unanimous in exclaiming,
“ Were I from Dunsinane away and clear,
Profit again should hardly draw me here,”
as joint stock companies have been in voting thanks
to their paid managers. From the knowledge we
have of the Scotch character, we are somewhat dubious
whether the doctor would not have broken a vow, the
declaration of which, it is evident, did violence to
his national feelings.
Our intention in this paper was to have alluded to
another class of ghosts of a somewhat similar nature
to the Will o’ the Wisp, and which class has been
known to appear under various aspects, and with in-
tentions of anything but a friendly character. We
might furnish innumerable instances of this, did we
deem the matter of sufficient importance. We might
also cite the opinions of Horatio upon the subject,
when imploring Prince Hamlet to eschew the invi-
tation of his canonized father—
“ What, if it tempt you toward the flood, my lord,
Or to the dreadful summit of the cliff,
That beetles o’er his base into the sea?
And there assume seme other horrible form,
Which might deprive your sovereignty of reason,
And draw you into madness ! think of it.”
Here there is an evident intimation given of a pro-
pensity which exists or existed amongst this extra-
ordinary race to destroy those to whom they appeared ;
although in the above case we in some measure agree
with Hamlet, that this ghost was “ an honest ghost”
—a ghost whose word might be safely taken “ for a
thousand pounds” ( query! in Bank of Australia
stock 1 ?) and not a destructive spirit as Horatio’s
speech is calculated to insinuate.
Look again at the ghost which personated Banquo
after his murder. What was his intention in appear-
ing to Macbeth ? Where the utility of frightening
the poor Monarch in the way he did ? making him
roar, and rant, and rave, in a very unkingly manner,
and much, no doubt, to the discomfiture and injury
of his lungs. It is evident its object must have been
to inflict torture ; which, how high soever it may
. rank amongst ghostly virtues, is certainly one with
which the Christian mind can never sympathize.
Macbeth was a brave man —a man of nerve— he
could not be daunted with trifles— oh ! no. The
rugged “Russian bear, the armed rhinoceros, the
Hyrean tiger, were insignificant playthings on which
to exercise his thirsty and irresistible valor. They
appear to have borne the same affinity to his courage,
as the windmill and the barber’s basin did to the
bravery of the thrice renowned Don
Quixote of chivalrous and ever-glorious memory.
True, he says
“ Our fears in Banquo stick deep
but it is equally true that “ his steel in Banquo stuck
deep,” from which we infer that his bravery was
physical in its nature and not moral. Fleance also
was to have been provided for, but he declined the
honor, exclaimed “ no you don't," and embarked for
the continent. It becomes a matter of curious specu-
lation whether, supposing Fleance had fallen, he
might not have had a ghost to personify him at the
Royal feast: in that case there would have been two
against one, the result of which might have been dis-
astrous.
There is one other of a some somewhat similar
nature to which we would briefly allude in support
of the opinion we gave touching the reprehensible
intention of some portion of the species, and as it is
one of which history speaks, it will be found worthy
of particular attention and regard. Seize-her (Caesar)
the Roman Emperor that wished to be—we do not
allude to Nero, Caligula, or Domitian, as the ortho-
graphy of the name would imply, but Julius, who
was slain by Brutus in a fit of patriotism, the exube-
rance of which was rather to be lamented than other-
wise—this Caesar was, prior to the battle of Pharsalia,
personified by one of these spirits, and appeared to
Brutus one evening, when that warrior in rather a
moody humour was smoking his pipe in his tent.
On enquiry being made as to who he might be, and
what the purport of his visit, he replied,—“ lam thy
evil spirit, Brutus. I’ll meet thee again at Philippi.”
“ I’ll meet thee there,” was the manly reply. This
was a cruel declaration, and one for which the ghost,
in our opinion, should be much reprobated. The
ghost—hear it, ye makers of promissory notes ! —the
ghost was true to his promise, and Brutus perforated
his body with his own sword.
There are many, we fear, who will doubt the exis-
tence of this interesting race ; for we are well aware
of the difficulty which exists in o\ercoming blind


and iufaluaLed prejudice. Our labours, however,
are undertaken for the benefit of others, and although
we should fail in inducing our readers to discard
their stubborn incredulity, we firmly believe ve shall
receive the reward due to so vast and philanthropic
an undertaking.
CORRESPONDENCE.
To the Editor of the Colonial Literary Journal.
“Now this is worshipful society,”
Sir—May I hope for your indulgence, while I lay before you
what I conceive to be a case of almost inconceivable distress,
requesting the favour of your advice thereon. But lest, per-
adventnre, the rareness of the circumstance should disturb the
equilibrium of your philosophy, as it has already disconcerted
mine, allow me. by way of exordium, to preface it with the
following explanatory but very brief introduction. I must
inform you then, I am a young man of a certain age, the exact
date of which, to confound the envious, will advisedly remain
a secret. lam a bachelor, and a constant reader, not to say
admirer, of your Journal.
Imprimis,: I have laid it down as a rule within myself, to
act on all occasions of importance, as well as in the more ordi-
nary affairs of life, in strict accordance with the most abstract
ideas of reason and good sense, without regard to custom or
appearance.
When I walk abroad, it is solely with a view to business, or
respiration, and to take the fresh air. If the morning is cold,
I generally take a few turns in the park ; running, I believe/
in as short a space of tiVne as any gentleman of my corpulent
habit might be supposed to do, from one end to the other, bv
way of exercise. I then return quietly to my lodgings, hum-
ming a favourite air, or repeating aloud a few lines from some
Greek or Latin author, to renovate my lungs, and improve
their tone. I confess this latter exercise subjects me to some
few inconveniences, such as the impertinent remarks of a
crowd, of gapers, and the vulgar curiosity of sundry trades-
people, that shoot their heads out at their respective doors, as
I pass, to the manifest detriment of their several avocations.
Nay, ’twas but the other morning, that as I was returning home
and innocently indulging my oratorical powers in a passage
from Horace, a chubby faced grocer’s boy suddenly thrust his
head through a square of glass into the’ street, which caused
me to start so precipitantly to the opposite side, that I unfor-
tunately overturned, in my flight, a respectable elderly female,
at the same time inadvertently poking an old orangewoman
in the eye with the point of my walking cane, which I had
placed under my arm for convenience. To complete my misery,
a villainous constable whohappened to be at hand, immediately
apprehended me for the double offence of housebreaking and
assault. So that before I could extricate myself from this
dilemma my morning was spent, and the ardour-of my rheto-
rical propensity considerably diminished ; not to mention my
loss of appetite through the adventure. My coffee too, on my
return I found sufficiently cold, my landlady having in my
absence, very considerately taken it into her head to explore
all the pools and waterholes in the neighbourhood where I l ad
been known to resort. This, sir, is one of the daily annoyances
to which I am subjected by the impertinent interference of
people whose manners and customs I have no desire either to
injure or imitate. 1 am well enough inclined to be friendly
and social, but, as I have already stated, on the principle only
of good common sense. I atn extremely agreeable in conver-
sation, but protest most hugely against people speaking what
they do not mean. I never tell any man that lam his devoted
servant, but that I am hit well-wisher; and w-ould rather be
considered a malcontent than drink his Excellency the
Governor’s health, if 1 were not dry. Thus, sir, by following
the pure dictates of reason and my own inclination, ex voio,
I have so far departed from the common practices of other
men, that I am likely to incur the charge, if not of lunacy, at
least of heretical schism.
But, alas! this is not all ; I have not yet divulg’d a single
particle of my real woe. lam still but in limine , ‘at the outset’
ot my narration, which I will now endeavour to give it. the
best mariner that the nervous excitement into which I have
been thrown, will permit.
It is simply as follows:—I was lately invited by a friend of
mine, to spend a few weeks with him at his house in the
country. I accepted the invitation, and found no cause at that
time to regret my visit. I was received with marked attention
and respect; and was entertained with every pleasure and
enjoyment that a country life could affo d. In short, I became
most agreeably allured with ‘ pleasant groves an'd shady walks,’
wdiere, not always alone, I passed many of my leisure hours in
reading or conversation. 1 may here premise that my friend,
who is a well-meaning man, and a conformer to the faith of
that class of people denominated quakers, is possessed of a
very virtuous and amiable' daughter, a plain modest girl,
neither ill-looking nor immoderately handsome though
sufficiently attractive to captivate one of n»y susceptible
temperament. To be brief, sir, { was—do I say iocs ? - 1 am
desperately in love : yet, scorning to take a mean advantage,
or make any clandestine approaches, I immediately commu -
nicated th - circumstance to mv friend, disclosing to him the
exact state of my affections. lie was graciously pleased to
approve of my passion ; and after having “ obtained leave,”
with the stipulated understanding to report progress, I gave
due notice, and immediately proceeded to open the debate.
Nothing could be more orderly or agreeable; I had every
reason to expect a majority on the motion : the greatest una-
mity of opinion prevailed throughout; and the word ‘ division’
had, at an early stage of the proceedings, been abandoned by
mutual consent, as heing altogether unwarrantable and imper-
tinent. And now, sir, comes the climax, the grand denouement
of all my misery. You are already acquainted with some of
my peculiarities, and here I must inform you of another custom
which I have adopted. I mean with regard to reading. It
has long been a favourite practice with me, when I meet with
any very interesting passage, particularly in poetry, to repeat
the words aloud, and in what I conceive a tone suitable to the
nature of the sentiments therein contained ; accompanying the
h’ cital with such action of the body, as the passage itself may
seem to suggest, I have good reason to suspect, (from certain
whisperings among the servants,) that I had been overheard in
some ol these heroic fits, manifestly to my disadvantage —but
to the matter. 1 had been one evening after sunset, walking
alone in a pleasant arbour near my friend’s house, very intently
engaged in that part of * Milton’s'Paradise Lost,’ where Adam
is described as surprised at Lis own existence, and taking a
survey of himself and all the works cf nature.
I must confess I was creating no inconsiderable uproar at
tne time, for I could perceive some bi ds that had lodged in
the shrubbery overhead, continually shifting from place to
place, evidently astonished at my performance. I had just
arrived at, and was repeating with all conceix able vehemence,
the following lines—
-1 e hills and dales, ye livers, woods, and plains,
And ye that live and move, fair creatures, tell,
Tell, if you saw, how came I thus, how here?
when the sound of suppressed whisperings caught my ear. I
carted immediately out at the entrance of the arbour, where to
my utter amazement, I discovered the greater part of the
f ;mi!y assembled, reconnoitering my evolutions through the
branches. As soon as they had recovered their surprise at
my sudden appearance among them, they took to instant flight,
will] the most alarming trepidation; maids running as for
then lives, and children screaming and tumbling one over
another, in their anxiety to leave your humble servant undis-
puted possession of the field. One little urchin having become
so exhaused in the melee as to be incapacitated for proceeding
farther, lay squalling on the ground, no one stopping to assist
ois flight or daring to attempt a rescue. I immediately pro-
ceeded to console my little captive, whom I justly considered
my prisoner of war, surprised in a reconnoitre and captured
by sortie. But as I attempted to approach, he rolled and
kicked upon the ground* and became altogether so outrageously
uproarious, that I apprehended the result, and very judiciously
retraced my steps. The little fellow at length became pacified,
and alter sundry ineffectual efforts, made good his retreat.
I will not trespass further on your time, by relating all I
suffered through this adventure. ”
From that hour I was watched and followed wherever I
went, particularly if I walked in the-wicinitv of water; and the
next morning on looking for my razors found they had been
removed. I enquired of the butler, whom l had observed
dodging me from place to place, whether he had seen them.
I lie fellow looked me steadily in the face for some time without
answering, but seeing that I was determined, replied dryly, lie
had t ken them to sharpen, a.;d after considerable delay,
thrusting his band into his pocket, ard trembling from hea l
to toot, placed them before me on the table.
1 now concluded this impertinence was fairly at an end ;


but no : lie next began to busy himself about the apartment,
evidently for the purpose of observing my movements. You
may guess, Sir, 1 was not a little irritated at this insolence,
and with considerable warmth desired him to leave the room.
He was slow enough to comply , but at length did so, cast-
ing a parting glance toward me of such pitiful condolence, that
1 felt much inclined to knock the fellow down.
I now began to think it high time to move my quarters,
since every member of the family actually regarded me as a
crazy, if not a dangerous person,
Even my friend himself, though his respect for me knew no
change, yet his manner was considerably altered ; and his
attentions, which from this time increased, and waxed unre-
mitting, became proportioriably painful; being in fact more
like the anxiety of a keeper for bis ward, than the hospitality
of a gentleman to his guest. All my fond hopes were dashed
and overturned by this unlucky accident. For to continue
my addresses to the lady under my present auspices, was an
idea not to be entertained. In fact, it was no longer possible ;
the silly creature had positively refused to see the “crazed
gentleman” again, except in the presence of a third party.
I immediately packed up my trunk, and in a highly dangerous
state of mental and bodily excitement, have this moment
arrived at my lodgings in town. I lose not a moment in
setting my pen in motion to lay the whole matter before your
worship, and request your advice with all possible dispatch.
W r hat I desire to know of you, is, whether upon the evidence
before you, I am really mad or not.
I can produce several testimonials that I demean myself
with all customary sobriety before company 1 that I am not
only docile and tractable, but perfectly harmless, and that I
was never once in my life guilty of talking in my sleep. Nay,
a certain friend of mine, who is greatly concerned at my mis-
fortune, has secretly communicated to me his willingness
solemnly to avow, should matters come to such a crisis, that
he once observed me to sit alone for a full hour and eleven
minutes, without once speaking to myself. This, Sir, with all
submission, I take to be strong evidence in extenuation ; but,
lest further arguments might tend to my prejudice, as we
commonly conclude that man guilty who takes most pains to
declare his innocence, I shall conclude by requesting you to
hear in mind, even should you be induced to issue a commis-
sion of lunacy against me, that 1 am, and ever have been, your
undoubted admirer.
TIM HARMLESS.
P.S. No. I. If I must be mad, I desire the lady may be-
lieve it is for her.
P.S. No. 2.—1 would have no objection to be confined to a
ward in my friend’s house provided the young lady were
appointed my keeper.
To the Editor of the Colonial Literary Journal.
IR ’~A. an< l are partners, and C. and D. their opponents,
at W’hist. The former count eight, the latter four—it is B.’s
turn to call the honours, but A. having ace, king, and knave
of trumps, in his own hand, throws them down on the table
before the turn for playing has come round to him, and claims
the game!—is the act of throwing down the honors and
shewing out,” as mentioned above, in any way contrary to
the laws and regulations of Whist ?
If, Mr. Editor, in the event of your not being able to decide
the above question, you will have the kindness to place it
before the public, and thus induce some of your numerous
correspondents to solve the query, it will greatly oblige
r „ T A SUBSCRIBER.
[W e must trust to our readers for a solution of the above
query.— Ed. C. L. J.]
LOCAL NEWS.
Missionary Society.— The Annual meeting of the Sydney
Auxiliary to the London Missionary Society was held in the
Independent Chapel, Pitt-street, on Monday evening last.
The Meeting was numerous and was addressed bv the follow-
ing gentlemen. The Rev. Dr. Ross (chairman), Rev. Messrs.
Heath, Powell, Sunderland, Gill, (Missionaries lately arrived
by the John Williams ) Mansfield, Adam, Saunders, Draper,
Dr. Lang, and Apera-amo, a native of Samoa. The proceed-
ings of the evening were listened to with great attention, and
appeared to give much pleasure. Amount of collections for
the year ending July 1844—£57. 3s. 6d.
MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS.
1 he following is an abstract of the result of the annual election
of members of the City Council, on Friday last:—
Members re-elected—Messrs. T. Ryan, T. Smidmore, J.
Neale.
Members added—Messrs. IT Fisher, A. Siliitoe, J. Hen-
derson, G. Wilkie, L. Iredale, and J. F. Josephson,
Members retired—Messrs. D. Jones, T. Woolley, John
Jones (absent) and David Taylor, (deceased.)
The Council for the ensuing year will therefore be composed
of the following gentlemen :
Gipps Ward. —Messrs. Flood (Alderman), Agars, Chapman,
Fisher, and Ryan.
Bourke Ward. —Messrs. Macdermott (Alderman), Thurlow
Driver, Brown, and Siliitoe.
Brisbane Ward.— Messrs. Allen (Alderman), Coyle,
Holden, Little, and Smidmore.
Macqarie Ward.— Messrs. Wilshire (Mayor), Cowlishaw,
and Henderson.
Phillip Ward.— Messrs. Broughton (Alderman), Neale,
and Wilkie.
Cook Ward.— Messrs. Hill (Alderman), Pawley, Jenkins,
Iredale, and Josephson.
The Atlas. —We have been favored with a “ Prospectus < f
a new weekly paper to be entitled The Atlas Sydney Weekly
Journal of Politics, Commerce and Literature.” Jf but a por-
tion of the inducements here presented for public patronage be
actually accomplished, this proposed publication will merit it,
even in these times of universal retrenchment.
The missionary ship, John Williams, will positively proceed to
sea, this morning, at half-past-nine o’clock, towed by the
steamer Cornubia. — Herald.
Blrrima. —A Court of General Quarter Sessions will be
holden at the court house, Berrima, on Thursday, the sth
December next.
Wool and Tallow. —We are glad to learn by the late
arrivals from England, that the tallow aent from this colony
realised £42 I Is. 4d. per ton in the London market. Wool
has also advanced three farthings per lb. upon the last quota-
tions. — Chronicle.
THE TEETOTALLER AND HIS DRUNKEN
SPOUSE.
( From Hood's Magazine.)
The next morning the teetotaller rose, and went to hi'j occu-
pation abroad, as usual, for he was the Co. of a small linen
drapery establishment in the city: but he was sadly unfit for
business: as who could be otherwise, with his heart as heavy
as a slack baked loaf, his head as confused as mixed pins, his
nerves as unstrung as the harp of Tara’s halls, and altogether
as unhinged as the gates of Somnauth. In fact, he entered
the shop with such a melancholy face,—as if he had forsworn
even animal spirits,—that his partner anxiously inquired after
his health.
“ Why, middling, had a bad nightbut he did not add that
he was having almost as bad a day from his waking dreams ;
nor that, from the perturbation of the optic nerves, the pink
sprigs on the printed cotton before him seemed to be vvrig-
g ing about like clusters of worms. There was a half-mournino-
chmtz, too, with round black spots on it, that rolled about
distressingly like her eyeballs.
“ And bow was Mrs. B ?” inquired the partner,
n , W , h y> pretty well, thankee,” as indeed she might be for
all he knew; but alas, for all he knew, she might be, at that
very moment, as he had seen her in his vision, namely, with
her whole frame drawn into an arch only resting on the heels
and the back of the head. She was, perhaps, even swelling to
that portentous bulk, with a head huge as three, and a face
changing from pink to purple, like the shot silk in the window'.
He even seemed to smell—it might be the odour of the dye,
from the stuffs and bombazines—but in his nostrils it was the
smell of a narcotic associated with sleep everlasting.
In vain lie tried to get rid of the gloomy impression; it
clung to him like a wet garment, chilling him to his very soul.
At sight you would have set him down, not a teetotaller, but a
confirmed drunkard ; his hand shook so, he never snipped the
linen with the scissars with the right nick; his eyes dazzled so,
that he offered puce ribbons to match with snuff colour, and de-
clared blue satin to be the best raven black. As for the bills he
could neither make them out, nor sum them correctly; he was


too busy with the bills of mortality ; and he invariably gave
the wrong change. In short, to use a common phrase, his
mind was poisoned, and as a natural consequence, his thoughts
were corroded, his fancies discoloured and distorted, and Reason
in a high delirium. As usual in such cases, his brain swarmed
with horrible images; and the most trifling realities assumed
a prophetic significance.
“ What a frightful pattern !” exclaimed a maid servant, as
she turned over some remarkably cheap ginghams.
The teetotaller glanced at the piece she pointed at, and
thought so too, for it was sprinkled over with spots of livid
colour and red edges.
“ And this is not much better,” said the girl, tossing aside
a remnant of a flesh-coloured ground, blotched with yellow,
green, and purple.
“ And that’s wus,” said the female, rejecting a third sample,
“ I don’t see nothing I like and she proceeded to deposit
her small purchase of pins and tape, and half a yard of flannel,
in her basket, out of which she first took an article that either
occupied*too much room or would have endangered the rest
a bottle of some deleterious mixture for the flies, and marked
“ poison,” in large letters. The linen draper shuddered at
the sight, but attempted a grin of pleasantry.
“ Are you going to drink that, my dear ?”
“No; it’s for missus.”
“Gracious Heaven !” ejaculated the teetotaller, but under
his breath, and hastily pushing three shillings and two p' nny
pieces towards his customer, as the change out of her half-
crown, for he was almost crazy at the ominous coincidence:
“ It’s meant, yes it’s meant for a warning.” And snatching
up his hat, without more notice or ceremony than if he had
absconded with the till or the cash box, he bolted out of the
emporium, and ran home, if it was a home, and to his wife, if
he had a wife, of which he had as many doubts as one could
tie up in a yard of black crape.
Rap—rap—rap ! —No one came to the door.
“My worst fears then are realized !” —but the conclusion
was premature, for the door suddenly opened, whilst his hand
again conclusively grasped the knocker, and pulled him into
the passage. With trembling nerves, and a palpitating heart,
he instantly rushed into the parlour; she was not there ! Nor
yet in the drawing-room ! But her bonnet and shawl lay on
the round table. His wife had been out! Perhaps to lay in
a fresh stock of pine apple rum, for he had made way with the
bottle in the cupboard. Perhaps, dreadful thought! to pur-
chase some or all of the deadly drugs she had threatened to
swallow. With renewed alarm he hurried up stairs to the
bed-chamber, and threw open the door. Yes, thank Heaven !
there she was, and alive, and without a blotch on her face.
But he had yet his minor misgiving.
“ Ellen, you have been out.”
“ Well, I know I have.”
“ To the King’s Head ?”
“ No, John, no. But no matter. You’ll be troubled no
more with drinking.”
' “ What do mean ?”
“ I mean what I say, John,” replied his wife, looking very
serious, and speaking very solemnly and deliberately, with a
strong emphasis on every word, “You —will—be —troubled—
no—more with—my drinking—l have took it at last !”
“ I knew it,” exclaimed the wretched husband, desperately
tossing his arms aloft, as when all is lost. “ I knew it!” —and,
leaving one coat flap in the hands of his wife who vainly at-
tempted to detain him, he rushed from the room—sprang
down the stairs, both flights, by two and three steps at a time
—ran along the passage, and without his hat, or gloves, or
stick, dashed out at the street door, sweeping from the steps
two ragged little girls, a quarter loaf, a basin of treacle, and a
baby. But he never stopped to ask if the children were hurt,
or even to see whether the infant dripped with gore or molasses.
Away he ran, like a rabid dog, straight forward, down the
Borough, heedless alike of porter’s load, baker’s basket, and
butcher’s tray.
“ I say,” muttered the errand boy as he staggered from the
collision.
“ Do that again,” growled the placard man, as he recovered
the pole and board which had been knocked from his shoulder.
“ Mind where you’re goin,” bawled a hawker, as he picked
up his scattered wares ; whilst a dandy, suddenly thrust into
the kennel, launched after the runner one of those verbal
missiles which are said to return, like the boomerang, to those
who launch them.
But on, on, on scampered the teetotaller, heedless of all
impediments—on he scoured, like ahe Camilla, to the shop,
number 240, with the red, blue, and green bottles in the
window—the chemist and druggist’s—into which he darted,
and up to the little bald man at the desk, with barely breath
enough left to gasp out “ My wife !” “ Poison !” and “ Pump !”
“ Vegetable or mineral?” inquired the surgeon-apothecary
with professional coolness.
“ Both —all sorts —laudanum —assnick —oxhc acid—corro-
sive sublimity;” —and the teetotaller was about to add pine-
apple rum among the poisons, when the doctor stopped him. ■
“ Is she sick ?”
“No.” But remembering the symptoms overnight, the
teetotaller ventured to say, on the strength of his dream, that
she was turning’ all manners of colours, like a rainbow, and
swelling as big as a house.
“ Then there is not a moment to lose,” said the Esculapius,
and arming himself with the necessary apparatus—a sort of
elephantine syringe with a very long trunk he set off at a
trot, guided by the teetotaller, to unpoison the rash and ill-
fated bacchanalian, Mrs. Barrage.
“ And did he save her ?”
“ My dear madam, be content to let that remain a little and
accumulate interest, like a sum in the saving’s bank.
Now, when the teetotaller, with the medical man at his
heels, arrived at his own house, Mrs. Burrage was still in her
bed-room, which was a great convenience ; for, before she
could account for the intrusion of the stranger, nay even with-
out exactly knowing how it was done, she suddenly found her-
self seated—more zealously than tenderly or ceremoniously
in the easy chair ; and when she attempted to expostulate, sne
felt herself choking with a tube of something, which was
certainly neither maccaroni, nor stick-liquorice, nor yet pep-
permint.
To account for this precipitancy, the exaggerated representa-
tions of her husband must be borne in mind ; and if his wife
did not exhibit all the dying dolphin-like colours that he had
described, —if she was not yet quite so blue, green, or
black, as he had painted her, the apothecary made sure that
she soon would be, and consequently went to work without
delay, where delays were so dangerous.
Mrs. Burrage, however, was not a woman to submit quietly
to a disagreeable operation, against her own consent; so with
a vigorous kick and a push, at the same time, she contrived to
rid herself at once of the doctor and his instrument, and in-
dignantly demanded to know the meaning of the assault upon
her.
“ It’s to save your precious life, Ellen,” said the teetotaller,
very solemnly.
“ It’s to empty the stomach, ma’am,” said the doctor.
“Empty a fiddle,” retorted Mrs. B, who would have added,
stick, but the doctor, watching his opportunity, had dexterously
popped the tube into her mouth ; not without a fresh scuffle
from the patient.
“For the Lord’s sake, Ellen,” entreated the teetotaller,
confining her hands, “ do, do, pray do sit quiet.”
“ Pob—wob—wobble,” said Ellen. “ Hub—bub —bub
bubble,” attempting to speak with another pipe in her throat
besides the windpipe.
“ Have the goodness, ma’am, to be composed,” implored
the doctor.
“ I won’t,” shouted Mrs. Burrage, having again releasee
herself from the instrument by a desperate struggle. “What
am I to be pumped out for ?”
“Oh, Ellen, Ellen,” said the teetotaller, “you know wha
you have taken.”
“ Corrosive salts-and narcotics,” put in the doctor.
“ Assnic and corrosive sublimity,” said the teetotaller.
“ Oxalic acid and tincture of opium,” added the doctor.
“ Fly water and laurel water,” said Mr. Burrage.
“ Vitriol, prussic, aqua fortis,” continued the druggist.
“ I have taken no such thing,” said the refractory patient.
“ Oh Ellen, you know what you said.”
“ Well, what ?”
“ Why that your drinkingshould never trouble me any more.”
“ And no more it shall!” screamed the wilful woman, falling,
as she spoke, into convulsive paroxysms of the wildest
laughter, “No more it shall, for I’ve took—”
“What ma’am; pray what?”
“In the name of Heaven ! What!”
“Why, then—l’VE TOOK THE PLEDGE!”
An Expressive Device. —A young fop, ordering a seal,
expressed his desire to have something engraved upon it tc
denote what he was. “You cannot have anything better/*
observed the jeweller, “than a cypher!”


SELECTIONS FROM REJECTED FIECES.
[According to promise (see editorial note—page 302,) we
publish a few extracts from rejected original pieces, which we
might have doubled or quadrupled, but could not lay our hands
upon others. At the same time, we are bound to observe that
we have many pieces by us which, no doubt, were creditable to
the writers, but yet did n t, in our opinion, possess merit
sufficient to entitle them to publication. One or two produc-
tions, which we formerly rejected, may yet, as a proof of our
candour, be inserted among our accepted pieces.—Ed. C. L. J.]
TO DO IT?
To be a Squater Bold and Free
And only think of Cash too’t
What Bonepartee made us see
No Lips or Eye with lash too’t
How grinning 'tis to bear the Cold
Can that Create a Ration
When all your help is only Gold
And make a Botheration
To wonder how your Fathers lived
And all the World before ’em
If Truth is right and no one fibd
Then Build They could and shore ’em
But if a Dolly’s shown a Childe
Or Cork the way to screw it
And must the Tame yet ask the Wilde
How Fathers once cut Suet
The Pussy pan cramp’d in a hole
And you won’t help it out then
Don’t blame the Cat for what is stole
Altho’ You are such Stout Men
You may be Riding in a Fog
And Posts might give a black Eye
The Chimney swept won’t spoil the Prog
Or Cooks oft miss a Jack Fly
But what of that as you are Brave
And have no foolish notion
Six foot of Sand you need not Crave.
To take a Downward motion
The Calves for Butter now to Drown
Such Price we have to rue It
Mock Turtle why its out of Town
Which is the way to do it ?
I Fancy All we have to say
Is only Just to be Right
Yet beres such lengths to run away
That will not keep the Shoe tight
But why so Careful when its Dry
Is twenty Spokes too flew Yet
Cheer up my Lads you soon may fly
So now Afford to do it
TO THE MORNING.
Again your welcome rosy morn
Upon the wings of Fate
Who bore thee, through, the sable lawn
Where Darkness, Sat in State.
With crown, and Sceptre to prepare
His chains, to bind the light
While gloomy chaos, through the air
Resounds, the praise of Night.
And seeks in vain, again to sway
The Space of worlds unknown
Before the Beaming Smiles of Day
Enshrin’d them, for their own.
Thy Smiles Invoke, the early Day
Thy mantle, doth unfold,
I’ts azures, of A, Purple ray
And clouds adorn’d with gold
Thy Fragrance, through, the groves up borno
Ascends in Saffron Flames.
While gentle Songsters, at the dawn
Of twilight, Bring their strains
All Nature, lavish, in thy praise
With grateful Joy prepare
To greet, the early morn, and raise
A tribute, to the Fair.
To withstand the many Ties, which connect Man with society
to chiefly depend on his own Labour for Subsistence, would be
rather a Dry Story at Sea, and a Phelanthropist with one eye
might see it Two Wet, upon Land. Ignorance can, have a
monsterous Satisfaction being deceived—Perticularly in a Live
Turtle Cook’d, it becomes a Babylonia Interpreter most pro-
found in Wisdom and goes into the understanding Like the
Deep Sea-lead in the Chops of the Channel—
How is Man to make any thing out of nothing? doth he give
the increase No ! Where is the Moral Balance then. If Self
dependence should only help Self, It multiplys false teaching
Indulging or Sharing either Genders of Evil, do not Produce
Good There your selfish Virtuous Spirit is stopd, and
Consciousness like the Leech is only to know Covetousness
when it Burst.
EXTRACTS.
Lord Heytesbury bad been gazetted Lord Lieutenant of
Ireland.
The House of Lords had rejected the claim of Sir Augustus
D’Este to succeed to the Sussex Peerage.
Trade was very flourishing. There was a prospect of a
good harvest. The July wool sales were progressing satis-
factorily ; aud a rise of fd. per lb. had taken place on prices
last quoted.
Statistics of Bankruptcies. —The total number of bank-
ruptcies in England and Wales, for 1843, is recorded as 1112 :
of those, wine and spirit merchants, inn-keepers, and vic-
tuallers, hop merchants, distillers, maltsters, and brewers,
are 151, being more than 13 per cent of the whole —London
Temperance Journal,
Why is a hired labourer like a traveller ?—Because he is a
journey-man.
Pa and Ma. —Why is the letter D like a squalling child f
—Because it makes Ma mad.
Shipping EntdHgcncc.
ARRIVALS.
October 31.—The schooner Marian Watson, 146 tons, Cap-
tain Taggart, from Hobart Town, the 23rd October.
November I.—The barque Dublin , 429 tons, Captain Jones,
from the Downs the sth, Plymouth the 10th, and St. Jago, the
25th July, with a general cargo.
November 2'.—The steamer William the Fourth, 53 tons,
Captain Wiseman, from the Clarence River, the 28th ultimo,
with wool, &c.
November s.—The barque Parroclc Hall, 425 tons, Captain
Goldsmith, from London the 15th, and Portsmouth the 22nd
July, with a general cargo.
Novembers.—The brig Tobago, 136 tons, Captain Thomas,
from Launceston the 28th ultimo.
DEPARTURES.
■The brig Louise, Captain Tucker, for Hobart
November 1.
Town.
November 2.—The brig Emma, Captain Fox, for Adelaide
November 4.—The schooner Coolangatta , Captain Napper
for Auckland.
astrtfjs.
On the 28th instant, at her residence, Berrima, Mrs. Hig-
gins, of a son.
On the 31st ultimo, Mrs. Elliot, at her residence, Macquarie-
place, of a son.
On the 31st ultimo, at Maitland Stockade, the lady of
Captain Day, 99th Regiment, J.P., of a daughter.
J^tarriage.
On the 28th August last, at Oswald, by the Rev. W. Ross,
George Mitchell Harper, second son of the late W. Harper,”
Esq., of Oswald, to Janet Wright, eldest daughter of Colonel
K. Snodgrass, C. 8., of Eagleton.
Utatifos.
On the sth instant, the infant son of Mr. P. J. Elliot Aus-
tralian Subscription Library.
° n th * at Parramatta, William, the infant son
of Mr. Woolls, aged four months.


REMOVAL.
T READING'S GENERAL PRINTING OFFICE is THIS DAY REMOVED from 133, King-street,
*1 • to 316, Pitt-street North, (opposite to A. Foss’ Chemical Drug, and Grocery Establishment,) where every description
of PRINTING will be performed, as heretofore, with correctness, neatness, and dispatch. The Office of the
“COLONIAL LITERARY JOURNAL”
is also removed to the same place, where all communications intended for the above Journal are requested to be forwarded.
S Ist October, 18 Tt
A CB&KLSVffE,
TO ENGLAND, IKELAN* , SCOTLAND, AND ALL THE WORLD
BESIDE. *
WALKER’S PATENT GROATS.
r| VtHS ARTICLE, if tested, will be found to contain more
nutriment, than any similar article of the kind. E.
Walker is prepared to prove that two thirds of the quantity of
the above, if made in a proper manner, will be equal in nourish-
ment, and of a thicker substance, than the usual quantity
generally recommended by others in the directions for use.
Another desirable property belonging to Walker’s Patent
Groats is, as regards the great safety for export—not liable to
that change which the English manufacture is, by turning
sour on the voyage, avoided by the patent mode of preparation,
and greatly aided by the spontaneous growth of the grain
grown in this Country; while free from the artificial culture
which causes so much moisture in the farina of the English
grain, and scarcely ever eradicated or sufficiently prepared.
Enough already is before the public to satisfy them that
Walker’s Farinaceous Food, (for Children and for Persons with
impared digestion,) ought not to be despised, and which for
the future will be packed in Tin Canisters, in order to preserve
its most agreeable flavour. With the usual white label—
sealed and signed Edward Walker—that only being genuine.
Wholesale orders to any extent will be immediately at-
tended to; any export order exceeding ten gross of either
article, terms, half Cash, and the remainder when the goods
are resold.
Manufactory, Old Botany Road.
TO THE ES.ECTG3I3 OS* COOS. W&ED.
GENTLEMEN —I beg to acknowledge with feelings of
deep gratitude, the high mark of distinction you have
conferred on me, in electing me one of the guardians of your
interests in the City Council.
It is not possible, Gentlemen, for mortal to command the
favour of all, but this I can assure you, that I will endeavour
to deserve it.
As I purpose never to compromise by too great temerity
the interests or purse of the City, so will I never shrink from
asserting and defending its legitimate rights.
I beg to remain, Gentlemen,
Your faithful servant,
L. IREDALE.
Ist, November 1844.
TO TH3 SECTORS OF PK.CSj2.2P W ARI>,
(GENTLEMEN,— In announcing to you the''state of the
X poll, as decided by the Aldermen and Assessors at their
revision this morning, namely—
Neale 206
Wilkie 205
May 204
Tierney 87
Aou will perceive that I have been unsuccessful by the
minority of ON E vote only. 1
It is difficult for me to convey to you in any adequate words
the very grateful sense 1 entertain of the promptitude and zeal
with which 1 have been supported by so large a number of
your body, which inspires me with confidence, that, on some
future occasion, I may probably be returned as one of your
representatives. J
To those numerous friends, non-electors, whose kindness
and co-operation have been gratuitous and valuable, I b°<r
leave also to offer my warmest thanks,- and shall ever be,
Your obedient servant,
p THOMS MAY.
r irrama ta- street, Saturday, November 2.
A TO IbET.
and r ( M i E h TS SU l tab!e f° r offices ’ with Stable
Pitt-street n?a^r Se ’ ‘ f re< l U ‘ red ’ situate in a cen,ral P ai r of
of .his JournaL Kln »‘ street ’ for Particulars apply at the Office
November 6th, 1844.
SISPATCSS.
GROCOTT, Engraver, Printer, and Stationer, in re-
x\_. turning his grateful thanks for the very liberal
patronage bestowed upon him since his commencement in the
above business, by the gentry, merchants, and shopkeepers of
Sydney, begs to inform them that he has this day completed
(at considerable expense) his plan for printing and pressing
upwards of 1000 Bills, Cards, Circulars, &c. &c., in 24 hours
from the time of the order being given, thereby removing all
the inconvenience and delay hitherto attached to the Copper-
plate printing, and which is effected by Hot Pressing the whole
of the work entrusted to him, a plan never yet introduced in
the Colony.
To Gentlemen about going up the country or to the neigh-
bouring Colonies, this arrangement will produce a decided
advantage, as they can at any time have 100 cards printed and
ready for delivery 2 hours from the time of the order being given.
The celebrity which A. G. has earned in the Gold and Silver
Printing, needs no comment at his hands, as those parties who
have already employed him, show their satisfaction by paying
a second visit, A. G. in conclusion begs to impress upon the
minds of the public the fact that he is not “ A Shilling per
Hundred Printer” but professes to perform all work with
despatch and on reasonable terms, which has proved the
greatest satisfaction to him, by receiving a steady increase of
business since his commencement, during which time he has
not lost a customer.
Printing, Foolscap, Post, and other papers, together with a
good selection of Stationery always on hand at a reasonable
figure.
476, George-street, opposite the Barrack Wall.
N.B.—A. Grocott respectfully offers his personal services
to the Trade, as it is well known he can turn out their work
with greater despatch, than can be performed at their own
establishments.
©olontal Uittrarg journal,
AND
Weekly r&iscellany of Useful Information.
THE TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION to this Journal
JL are, Three Shillings per Quarter, in Town ; Country,
Three Shillings and Sixpence; payable, in every case,
in advance.
Terms for Advertisements :—For one inch, and under,
Three Shillings; and One Shilling for every additional inch,
each insertion. Advertisements will be received until Two
o’Clock on Wednesday afternoon; hut cannot be withdrawn
later than Nine o’Clock on Wednesday morning. Adver-
tisements must specify on the face of them the number of
times they are to be inserted, or they will be continued till
countermanded, and charged accordingly.
All communications must be addressed to “The Editor of
the Colonial Literary Journal, General Printing Office, 316,
Pitt-street,” (post paid.)
Agents for this Journal.
Sydney, Mr. W. Jones, Circulating Librarv, Brickfield-hill.
Parramatta Mr. Hugh Taylor.
Windsor Mr. Walker.
Bathurst Mr. Tress.
West Maitland Mr. Galloway.
Camden, Campbelltown, Penrith, and
Liverpool Mr. C. Lester.
Gunning Mr. Hawthorne.
