

COLONIAL
LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
t! NON TUA TE MOVE ANT, SED PUBLICA VOTA.”
Vol. I. No. B.]
SYDNEY, THURSDAY, AUGUST 15, 1844.
[Price 4d.
THE TWO CLASSES.
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL LABOURERS.
We very much doubt if the whole world cannot, in a
certain sense, be divided into the two classes of mental
and manual labourers. And though the distinction
between them is great and manifest,’ of how little
utility would be the one without the other: it may
indeed be noticed as one of the all-wise and unalterable
axioms of the Divine economy that such a state of
things must ever exist in our material world.
Without considering this, how exceedingly apt are
individuals whose occupations are chiefly of a labo-
rious and physical nature, to draw invidious com-
parisons betwixt the value of their own efforts, and
that of those classes of men who mainly depend for
their subsistence on the exercise of their mental
faculties. To do so, however, is quite adverse to the
principles developed by political economists, and is,
in reality, quite unworthy of any man laying claim to
the most common understanding. It is only by the
combination of science with genius and capital, that
the working man is furnished with employment, or
enabled to support his family ; and without a body of
men whose labour consists simply of thinking , society
would fall in pieces, and poverty visit the firesides of
the artizan and peasant.
That practical philosopher, Bacon, remarks that
the effort to extend the dominion of man over nature
is the most healthy and most noble of all ambitions.”
“ The empire of man,” he adds, “ over material things,
has for its only foundation the sciences and the arts.”
A great deal of the knowledge which constitutes this
dominion has been the property of society, handed
down from the earliest ages. The indirect influence
of a general advance in knowledge upon the particular
advance of any branch of labour is considerable ; for
the inquiring spirit of an age spreads itself on all sides,
and improvement is carried into the most obscure re-
cesses, the darkest chinks and corners of a nation.
The positive influence of science in the direction of
labour is exhibited in the operations of mechanics and
chemistry applied to the arts, in the shape of machines
for saying materials and labour, and of processes for
attaining the same economy. These are the influences
of science upon labour, which confer a certain, and in
some instances enormous benefit upon production, by
of causes which, upon a superficial view,
appear to be only matters of laborious but unprofitable
speculation.
Every one must be satisfied as to the extent and
importance of those aids which production derives from
the labours of men who have not been ordinarily
classed amongst “working men,” but who have been
truly the hardest and most profitable workers which
society has Uver possessed. No one can say that the
mental labourers are not workers. No one ever reached
eminence in scientific pursuits without unwearied in-
dustry : the most eminent have been universally
despisers of ease and sloth, and have felt their highest
pleasures in an absorbing devotion, through years of
unwearied assiduity, to the duties of their high calling.
The most eminent too have been practical men, des-
pising no inquiry, however trifling it might appear to
common eyes, and shrinking from no occupation, how-
ever tedious, $s long as it was connected with their
higher duties.
We shall now see what an intimate union subsists
amongst those classes of society who appear the most
separated; and that both these classes really labour
together most effectually for the advancement of the
great interests of mankind.
It Was profoundly said by Hume, “We cannot
reasonably expect that a piece of woollen-cloth will
be brought to perfection in a nation which is ignorant
of astronomy, or where ethics are neglected.” In ibis,
Hume did not perhaps mean to assert that the study
of astronomy has a real influence in making cloth
cheaper, in lessening the cost of production, and in
therefore increasing the number of consumers. But
look at the direct influence of astronomy upon navi-
gation. By the guidance of principles laid down by
our great astronomists, the seaman finds his way across
the watery globe. Without astronomical calculations,
the science of navigation could never have emerged
from a state of infancy. But what has this, some may
say, to do with the price of clothing ? Exactly this :
patt of the price arises from the cost of transport. If
there were no “lunar distances,” &e., ready calculated
by the mental labourer, the length of the trader’s
voyage would be prolonged four-fold.
Astronomy, therefore, and navigation, both sciences
the results of long ages of patient inquiry, have opened
a communication between the uttermost ends of the
earth, and therefore have had a slow but certain effect
upon the production of wealth, and the consequent
diffusion of all the necessaries, comforts, and conve-
niences of civilized life. The connection between
manufactures and science, practical commerce and
abstract speculation, is so intimate, that it might be
traced in a thousand striking instances.
One of these familiar instances may be adduced,
shewing the labour and capital saved, and tlfe assistance


rendered by the mental labourer to the physical labourer.
We allude to Geology. By this science are jve able to
determine where coal, for instance, may be found, in-
stead of, as in fonner years, suffering immense time
capital and labour to be wasted in searching for coal,
where the Geologist would have told us no coal could
exist.
But the principle of connecting every exertion of
the mind with profitable labour goes further than the
application of science, direct or indirect, to the mecha-
nical arts. “ The sciences and arts,” says an English
•writer, “ cannot be carried forward except in a country
wdrere the laws are respected, where justice is upheld,
where intellect generally is cultivated, and where taste
is diffused. The instructor of the young, who dedi-
cates his time to advancing the formation of right
principles, and the acquirement of sound knowledge
by his pupils, is a profitable labourer. The writer
who applies his understanding to the discovery and
dissemination of moral and political truth, is a profit-
able labourer. The interpreter and administrator of
the laws, who upholds the reign of order and security,
defending the innocent, punishing the guilty, and
vindicating the rights of all from outrage and oppres-
sion, is a profitable labourer. These labourers, it
may be said, are still direct producers of utility, but
these who addresses themselves to the imagination —
the poets, the novelists, the painters, and the musi-
cians—in every polished society, are unprofitable
labourers. One word is sufficient for an answer. —
These men advance the general intellect of a country,
and they therefore indirectly advance the production
of articles of necessity. It is a great, and rathei
common error to say that an abstract student, or an
elegant w r riter, is not a producer—is, in fact, an idler.
The most illustrious writers of every country, the
greatest jDoets, have lifted mankind to their noblest
pursuits of knowledge and virtue. Even the less
dignified labourers in the same field—those who espe-
cially devote themselves to give pleasure and amuse-
ment —call into action some of the highest and purest
sources of enjoyment. They lead the mind to seek
its recreations in more ennobling pursuits than those
of sensuality ; their arts connect themselves by a
thousand associations with all that is beautiful in the
natural world; they are useful for the promotion of
pure and innocent delight, as the flowers that gladden
us by their beauty and fragrance by the side of the
corn that nourishes us. An entire community of poets
and artists would be as unprofitable as if an entire
country were dedicated to the cultivation of violets
and roses; but the poets and the artists may, as the
roses and the violets, furnish the graces and ornaments
of life, without injury, and indeed with positive benefit,
to the classes who more especially dedicate themselves
to what is somewhat exclusively called the production
of utility. The right direction of the talents which
are dedicated to art and literature, is all that is required
from those who address themselves to these pursuits.
He, therefore, who beguiles a vacant hour of its tedi-
ousness, by some effort of intellect which captivates
the imagination without poisoning the morals—and he
who by the exercise of bis art, produces forms of
beauty, which awaken in the mind that principle of
taste which, more than any other faculty, requires
cultivation—have each bestowed benefits upon tho!
world, whiph may be accurately enough measured,
tven by the severe limitations of political economy ;
they are profitable labourers, and benefactors of their
species.”
The positive influence even of the labours of the
poets and the artists, upon the advance of other labour
—such as the paper-makers, printers, binders —might
be easily shewn. But that is not the principal way of
. viewing the influence of science, literature, and art,
upon all other industry. To reduce such to the same
standard by which manual labour is measured would
be absurd. Any attempt to put the mental labourers
upon the same footing of value as the physical labourers
without skill, would be as impossible as it would be
mischievous, if it were possible.
We trust that the above remarks will convince our
readers, that there are other higher producers in society,
than the mere labourer. It was an ignorant fashion
amongst the mental labourers of other days to despise
their equally-necessary fraternity the physical la-
bourers. The film has gradually evaporated from the
eyes of the former class, and it will be a sure mark of
increasing- intelligence amongst the latter, when they
learn more duly to appreciate the primary importance
of creative intellectual science.
GENTLEMEN ARTISTS.
To attain excellence in the arts is the lot of very few
professors, who have spent their lives in the pursuit.
Gainsborough, after a close application to painting
for fifty years, said on his death-bed—“ I am but just
beginning to do something, and my life is gone !” I
could repeat expressions of architects, sculptors, and
musicians, grown old in the study of their professions,
to the same purpose ; from whence we may conclude,
that the usual term of the duration of our faculties, is
not sufficient to attain that perfection to which genius
aspires.
This truth being admitted, for it cannot be denied,
what shall we say to those peremptory judgments
which are passed upon the works of genius by persons
who never had, nor, perhaps, could have, a thought
upon the subject % In any other case we should
judge them rash and presumptuous. No man, who
is unacquainted with the common professions and
trades, ever pretends to know any thing about them :
but every man fancies he can be an architect,
painter, or musician, with simply saying, like the
Elector of Brandenburg “ I will be a King!”
Every one feels himself equal to the designing and
building a house—very few who do not think they
might, if they chose it, be painters—and what numbers
of dilettanti are there, who, because they possess ear,
and perhaps a taste for music, fancy they can com-
pose !
Should these soi disant artists exhibit proofs of
their skill, it is natural to imagine, that their impo-
tent attempts would only be despised, and make them
ridiculous—just the reverse ; their works are most
favourably received—what they may possibly want in
skill, say the public, they possess in taste, and a
natural taste is every thing.
The gentlemen musicians may he divided into two
classes—the cultivators of performance, and composi-
tion ; to which may be added, those who unite both.
Nothing is more certain than that a great portion
of time must be applied to the practice of an instru-
ment before we can attain the rank of even a tolerable
performer—to those w'ho have other pursuits, this
would be an unprofitable employment ; it would be


time fnispent, and cannot be afforded : from this
consideration alone, there is a presumption, that a
person, not of the musical profession, cannot have
attained excellence on any instrument, notwithstand-
ing some illustrious exceptions. How many a concert
is spoiled by gentlemen whose taste is to supply their
deficiency of practice and knowledge! However,
although our ears are offended at the instant, the
affair is soon over ; and we think no more of it —but
this cannot be said of the gentlemen-composers.
These, for the most part, employ their talents in
vocal music. If they are members of a Cathedral
Church, they try their hand at a chant, and then
boldly venture upon an anthem. Should it bear
some abortive resemblance to air and harmony, it is
immediately considered as a prodigy, and the works
of our greatest composers must give way to the tasty
production.
Others amuse themselves in making a succession
of chords and call them Glees, which do the same
mischief in concerts and musical parties, as the works
of the reverend composers do in the church—that is,
they exclude real music, and produce first an endu-
rance, and then a liking of its opposite.
Permit me to add—that, though music has its
foundation in nature, the whole of the superstructure
is art —that much application is necessary before
knowledge will be acquired and that no substitute for
continual practice can produce facility. Previous to
to the first step, nature must have bestowed a talent for
the invention of melody; but if this talent be not direct-
ed by the knowledge of composition, and that know-
ledge continually exercised, the talent had better have
continued “hidden in a napkin.”— Jackson, of Exeter.
ON THE FORMATION OF CHARACTER.
“ Self culture is possible—not only because we can enter
into and search ourselves—but because we possess a still
nobler power, that of acting on, determining, and forming
ourselves.” —C hanning.
To the young this is a subject of the very highest importance:
’tis one whose consequences extend to every s*ep through life.
According to the principles we have embraced in youth, so is
our position in manhood; and so in comfort, or in misery, ate
we found when on a dying bed we obey the summons “Prepare
to meet thy God.” To the young then more particularly I
should wish to address myself. With those in manhood, their
die, I may say is cast; with the old, their day is gone by—
what principles of conduct either of these have adopted, they
have acted upon, and have risen or fallen accordingly. But
with the young the future is all before them—they have but to
choose their way—their prospects, their success are in their
own grasp, they may mould their lives as they will. It is no
dream, ’tis a fearful reality—that every young man has in his
own power the making or the marring of himself. This is an
oft told story, but it is too true. Though any remarks I may
make, may not be worthy a single perusal, let me entreat every
young man whose eye should glance here, to think for himself
on the subject. This would indeed be worth more than a
thousand essays from the pen of the greatest talents that ever
breathed, read, it may be, but never thought on.
The young man has future success in his own hands. I
should like to iterate this, till, if it were possible, it was seared
on the right hand of every one, and glazed before him. As the
Italian bead-roll of blessings has it, “ when sleeping, when
waking, when rising up, when lying down,
in the evening, in the sun’s noon-day brjgEj^Sfiin the quiet
star light.”
The formation of their characters ought to be to all begin-
ning life, the first, the grand object of their thoughts. It is
the basis of their standing in society, the foundation of their
prosperity in the world ; and although in as far as worldly
means are concerned, there are exceptions, where fortunes are
had by no efforts of the possessors; yet even in these cases, and
they are but rare, no one will deny that to pretend to any thing
like respectable influence, their characters must stand clear in
the public eye. Let a man roll in wealth, if his character is
bad, he is sure to be despised by the better feelings of all.
The generality of young men have nothing to depend upon,
but their own exertions, their own character. This, I have
heard it remarked, if good, is the best possible capital, if bad,
it is the very worst. Without a good character, money will be
but of little avail to a young beginner, with it, money may be
dispensed with, it can work its way alone. The sterling, con-
sistent, and uniform line of conduct, tells when the other would
have no power. Look around also, on all in the public and
honourable positions of life, how few there are, whose wealth
alone has placed them there; and how many there, whose
characters have won for them, that which gold could not buy.
The millionaire will sway the balance sometimes, but it is ever
against the feelings of the majority that he does it. So seldom
is this the case however, that I may be allowed to say, there is
no more direct road to all that we value on earth, than a pure
and unsullied character.
It then especially becomes all, who as the phrase is, “ wish
to do well in the world,” to take great care of their general
conduct. When they little think it, there are eyes upon them.
Expressions apparently trifling are noted, actions never again
thought of by the actor, are marked many and many a time by
those we are apt to deem as only casual observers. From
these however, they form their opinions of us, and we of course
rise or fall in their esteem accordingly—
“ Man in society is like a flower,
Born in its native bed.”
We can never be independent of the world’s opinion. From
infancy to the grave we must wind our way among our fellow
men. All that we prize we obtain from them, all that we feel,
is from them also. The smile of the world plays round our
hearts—we have toiled for it, we have won it, and it is well
worth working for. Its cold contempt stings us—we hava
despised its respect —and should we in the end be like the
profligate “amid the crowd* the hum, the shock of men,”
“ alone,” and know our conduct deserved it all, how bitter,
deadly bitter, must be the thought. Exceptions there may be
where motives may be mistaken, actions misconstrued, but
these let me assure you are rare, and never lasting. The world
has a high respect for virtue, and when a good man does fall,
in the hidden purposes of Providence, the regard in which he
is held, is not lessened ; and if he even has no helping hand,
he has at least, the best wishes and kindly feelings of around
him.
Under the term character are included many minor virtues:
one, which I consider the leading one, is Energy, We all
know what is right and proper; we know that to act thus will
raise us in our own respect, and in the esteem of others; and to
act otherwise, would be accompanied only with dishonour.
Of all this we may be well aware, but the want simply lies in
this—we have no resolution to do it: no one can ever mistake
his own actions, or the motives from which they proceed.
The “ still small voice” will rise, and dare in spite of all to
pass judgment on our doings. This innate Mentor, this God
within us, should never be despised, never once be disregarded.
If we from this know our actions to be wrong—and we invari-
when they are so—why have we not courage to act up
to its suggestions ?—why are we cowards before ourselves ?we
have no excuse, we knew our duty if we did it not. Decision


of character is a beautiful trait in any one, whether applied to
evil or to good. There is something noble in the man who
can make up his mind as to what he is to do, and when once
decided, act resolutely and firmly in attaining his ends. When
this.power is applied to good aims, the more glorious is the
result from the fixed and determined purpose shewn—when
applied to evil, the more fearful and the more to be dreaded
is the state of the one who wields it. Let this power then over
his own actions be sought for, and by every possible means
strengthened in the breast of every young man. Without it,
with the best possible intentions, he is the puppet of every one
who may choose to use him as such ; lie is whirled about by
the breath of every opinion. This easiness of disposition
almost annihilates that dignity, which ought to some extent
at least, to be possessed, and that confidence which may be
wished to he placed in him. No one will have dealings of
any consequence with one who is swayed by every wind that
blows. “He may be a very good meaning man, but lie is not
one in whom I can have any confidence Learn then to have
“ a mind of yotir own think for yourself. If your actions
are just and proper, let nothing turn you aside from doing
them, neither the low sneer, nor the haughty menace—if
they are improper, dare the world to induce youTo do them.
HORACE.
History.
ANCIENT HISTORY: SECTION VI.
REFLECTIONS ON THE FIRST AND RUDEST PERIODS OF THE
GRECIAN HISTORY.
1. The country of Greece presents a large, irregular
peninsula, intersected by many chains of mountains,
separating its different districts, and opposing natural
impediments to general intercourse, and therefore to
civilization.—The extreme barbarism of the Pelasgi,
who are said to be cannibals, and ignorant of the use
of fire, has its parallel in modern barbarous nations.
There were many circumstances that retarded the
progress of the Greeks to refinement. The introduc-
duction of a national religion was best fitted to remove
these obstacles. Receiving this new system of theo-
logy from strangers, and entertaining at first very
confused ideas oi i% they would naturally blend its
doctrines and worship with the notions of religion
which they formerly possessed ; and hence we observe
only partial coincidences of the Grecian with the
Egyptian and Phoenician mythologies. —It has been a
vain and preposterous labour of modern mythological
writers, to attempt to trace all the fables of antiquity,
and the various systems of Pagan theology, up to one
common source.—The absurdity of this is best shown,
by comparing the different and most contradictory
solutions of the same fable given by different mytho-
logists ; as, for example, by Lord Bacon and the abbe
Banier. Some authors, with much indiscretion, have
attempted to deduce all the Pagan mythologies from
the Holy Scriptures. Such researches are not only
unprofitable, but positively mischievous.
2. Superstition, in the early periods, was a predo-
minant characteristic of the Greeks.—To this age,
and to this character of the people, we refer the origin
of the Grecian oracles, and the institution of the
public games in honour of the gods.
The desire of penetrating into futurity, and the
superstition common to rude nations, gave rise to the
oracles of Delphi, Dodona, &e.
The resort of strangers to these oracles on particu-
lar occasions, led to the celebration of a festival’, and
to public games.
The four solemn games of the Greeks, particularly
termed were the Olympic, the Pythian, the
Nemean, and the Isthmian. The precise eras' when
these games were first instituted are extremely uncer-
tain, as well as the persons to whom they owed their
origin. They consisted principally in contests of
skill in all the athletic exercises, and the prizes were
chiefly honorary marks of distinction. —The Olympic
games were celebrated at Olympia, in the territory
of Elis, every fiftieth month, or the second month
after the completion of four years. —Archbishop Potter
in his Archcelogia Grceca fully details their particu-
lar nature. - —These games had excellent political
effects, in promoting national union, in diffusing the
love of glory, and training the youth to martial
exercises. They cherished at once a heroical and a
superstitious spirit, which led to the formation of
extraordinary and hazardous enterprises. They also
promoted the diffusion of knowledge, arts, sciences and
literature, by the trials of skill, which took place on
these occasions, in poetry, history, and music.
A CHRISTMAS CAROL.
By CHARLES DICKENS.
STAVE I. —MAULEY’S GHOST.
Marley was dead : to begin with. There is no doubt what-
ever about that. The register of his bui'ial was signed by the
clergyman, the clerk, the undertaker, and the chief mourner.
Scrooge signed it: and Scrooge’s name was good upon ’Change,
for anything he chose to put his hand to. Old Marley was
as dead as a door-nail.
Mind! I don’t mean to say that I know, of my own know-
ledge, what there is particularly dead about a door-nail. I
might have been inclined, myself, to regard a coffin-nail, as
the deadest piece of ironmongery in the trade. But the
wisdom of our ancestors is in the simile ; and my unhallowed
hands shall not disturb it, or the country’s done for. You
will therefore permit me to repeat, emphatically, that Marley
was as dead as a door-nail.
Scrooge knew be was dead? Of course he did. How
could it be otherwise ? Scrooge and lie were partners for I
don’t know how many years. Scrooge was his sole executor,
his sole administrator, his sole assignee, bis sole residuary
legatee, his sole friend, and sole mourner. And even Scrooge
was not so dreadfully cut up by the sad event, but that he
was an excellent man of business on the very day of the
funeral, and solemnized it with an undoubted bargain.
The mention of Marley’s funeral brings me back to the
point I started from. There is no doubt that Marley was
dead. This must be distinctly understood, or nothing won-
derful can come of the story I am going to relate. If we
were not perfectly convinced that Hnnlet’s father died before
the play began, there Would be nothing more remarkable in
bis taking a stroll at night, in an easterly wind, upon his own
ramparts, than there would be in any other middle-aged
gentleman rashly turning out after dark in a breezy spot —say
St. Paul’s Churchyard for instance —literally to astonish his
son’s weak mind.
Scrooge never painted out Old Marley’s name. There it
stood, years afterwards, above the warehouse door: Scrooge
and Marley. Sometimes people new to the business called
Scrooge Scrooge, and sometimes Marley, but he answered to
both names. It was all the same to him.
Oh ! But he was a tight-fisted hand at the grind-stone,
Scrooge ! a squeezing, wrenching, grasping, scraping, clutch-
ing, covetous old sinner! Hard and sharp hs flint, from
which no steel had ever struck out generous fire ; secret and
self-contained, ai d solitary as an oyster. The cold within
him froze bis old features, nipped bis pointed nose, shrivelled
bis cheek, stiffened his gait; made his eyes red, his thin lips
blue ; and spoke out shrewdly in his gradng'voice. A frosty
rime was on his head, and on his eyebrows, and on bis wiry
chin. He carried his own low temperature always about him ;
and didn’t thaw it one degree at Christmas.
External heat and cold had little influence on Scrooge.


No warmth could warm, nor wintry weather chill him. No
wind that blew was bitterer than lie, no falling' snow was more
intent upon its purpose, no pelting rain less open to entreaty.
Foul weather didn’t know where to have him. The heaviest
rain, and snow, and hail, and sleet, could boast of the advan-
tage over him in only one respect. They often “came down”
handsomely, and Scrooge never did.
Nobody ever stopped him in the street to say, with glad-
some looks, “ My dear Scrooge, how are you ? when will you
come to see me?” No beggars implored him to bestow a
trifle, no children asked him what it was o’clock, no man or
woman ever once in all his life inquired the way to such and
such a place of Scrooge. Even the blind men’s clogs appeared
to know him ; and when they saw him coming on, would tug
their owners into the doorways and up courts; and then
would wag their tails as though they said, “ no ,eye at all is
better than an evil eye, dark master !”
But what did Scrooge care ! It was the very thing he
liked. To edge his way along the crowded paths cf life,
warning all human sympathy to keep its distance, was what
the knowing ones call “ nuts” to Scrooge.
Once upon a time—of all the good days in the year, on
Christmas Eve—old Scrooge sat busy in his counting-house.
It was cold, bleak, biting weather; foggy withal: and he
could hear the people in the court outside go wheezing up
and down, beating their hands upon their breasts, and stamp-
ing their feet upon the pavement-stones to warm them. The
city clocks had only just gone three, but it was quite dark
already: it had not been light all day: and candles were
were flaring in the windows of the neighbouring offices, like
ruddy smears upon the palpable brown air. The fog came
pouring in at every chink and keyhole, and was so dense
wiihout, that although the court was of the narrowest, the
houses opposite were mere phantoms. To see the dingy
cloud come drooping down, obscuring everything, one might
have thought that Nature lived hard by, and was brewing on
a large scale.
Ihe door of Scrooge’s counting-house was open that he
nrght keep his eye upon his clerk, who in a dismal little cell
beyond, a sort of tank, was copying letters. Scrooge had a
very small fire, but the clerk’s fire was so very much smaller
tiat it looked like one coal. Hut he could not replenish it,
tor Scrooge kept the coal-box in his own room ; and so surely
as the clerk came in with the shovel, the master predicted
that it would be necessary for them to part. Wherewith the
clerk put on his white comforter, and tried to warm himself at
the candle ; in which effort, not being a man of a stron°-
imagination, he failed.
A merry Christmas, v uncle ! God save you!” cried a
c eeriul voice. It was the voice of Scrooge’s nephew, who
came upon him so quickly that this was the first intimation he
had of his approach.
“ Bah !” said Scrooge. “ Humbug!”
He had so heated himself with rapid walking in the fog and
irost, this nephew of Scrooge’s, that he was all in a glow; his
tace was ruddy and handsome; his eyes sparkled, and his
breath smoked again.
“Christmas a humbug, uncle!” said Scrooge’s nephew,
i ou don’t mean that, I am sure.”
“ I do,” said Scrooge. “ Merry Christmas! what right have
you to be merry ? You’re poor enough.”
“ Come, then,” returned the nephew gaily. “ What right
have you to be dismal ? what reason have you to be morose ?
i ou re rich enough.”
Scrooge having no better answer ready on the spur of the
moment, said, “Bah!” again; and followed it up with
Humbug.” 1
“ n>t be cross, uncle,” said the nephew.
“ hat else can I be,” returned the uncle* “ when I live in
such a world of fools as this ? Merry Christmas ! Out upon
merry Christmas ! What’s Christmas time to you but a time
lor paying bills without money ; a time for finding yourself a
year older, and not an hour richer ; a time for balancing your
books and having every item in ’em through a round dozen of
inonths presented dead against you? If I could work my
will said Scrooge, indignantly, “ every idiot who goes about
with Merry Christmas’ on his lips, should be boiled with his
own pudding, and buried with a stake of holly through his
heart. He should !”
“ Uncle !” pleaded the nephew.
“ Nephew !” returned the uncle, sternly, “ keep Christmas
own way, and let me keep it in mine.”
“ Keep it!” repeated Scrooge’s nephew. “ But you don’t
iceep it.
“ Let me leave it alone then,” said Scrooge. “ Much good
rnay it do you ! Much good it has ever done you I”
“ There are many things from which I might have derived
good, by which I have not profited, I dare say,” returned the
nephew : “ Christmas among the rest. But lam sure that ]
have always thought of Christmas time, when it has come
round—apart from the veneration due to its sacred name and
origin, if anything belonging to it can be apart from that—as
a good time : a kind, forgiving, charitable, pleasant time: the
only time I know of, in the long calendar of the year, when
men and women seem by one consent to open their shut-up
hearts Freely, and to think of people below them as if they
really were fellow-passengers to the grave, and not another
race of creatures bound on other journeys. And therefore,
uncle, though it has never put a scrap of gold or silver in my
pocket, I believe that it has done me good, and will do me
good ; and I say, God bless it!”
The clerk in the tank involuntarily applauded : becoming
immediately sensible of the impropriety, he poked the fire°
and extinguished the last frail spark for ever.
“ Let me have another sound from you” said Scrooge, “and
you’ll keep your Christmas by losing your situation. 0 You’re
quite a powerful speaker, sir,” he added, turning to his
nephew. “ I wonder you don’t go into Parliament.”
“ Don’t be angry, unde. Come ! Dine with us to-morrow.”
Scrooge said that he would see him—yes, indeed he did.
lie went the whole length of the expression, and said that lie
would see him in that extremity first.
“ But why?” cried Scrooge’s nephew. “Why ?”
“ Why did you get married ?” said Scrooge.
“ Because 1 fell in love.”
“ Because you fell in love I” growled Scrooge, as if that
were the only one thing in the world more ridiculous than,
a merry Christmas, “ Good afternoon !”
“ Nay, uncle, but you never came to see me before that
happened. Why give it as a reason for not coming now ?”
“ Good afternoon,” said Scrooge.
“ I want nothing from you; I ask nothing of you ; why
cannot we be friends ?”
“ Good afternoon,” said Scrooge.
“ I am sorry, with all my heart, to find you so resolute. We
have never had any quarrel, to which 1 have been a party.
But I have made the trial in homage to Christmas, and I’ll
keep my Christmas humour to the last. So—A Merry
Christmas, uncle !”
“ Good afternoon !” said Scrooge.
“ And—A Happy New Year !”
“ Good afternoon,” said Scrooge.
His nephew left the room without an angry word, notwith-
standing. He stopped at the outer door to bestow the greet-
ings of the season on the clerk, who, cold as he was, was
warmer than Scrooge ; for he returned them cordially.
“ There’s another fellow,” muttered Scrooge ; who over-
heard him : “ My clerk, with fifteen shillings a week, and a
wife and family, talking about a merry Christmas. I’ll retire
to Bedlam.”
This lunatic, in letting Scrooge’s nephew out, had let two
other people in. They were portly gentlemen, pleasant to
behold, and now stood, with their hats off, in Scrooge’s office,
They had books and papers in their hands, and bow Ted to him.
“ Scrooge and Marley’s, 1 believe,” said one of the gentle-
men, referring to his list. “ Have I the pleasure of addressing
Mr. Scrooge, or Mr. Marley ?”
.“ Mr. Marley has been dead these seven years ago, this
very night.”
“We have po doubt his liberality is well represented by
his surviving partner,” said the gentleman, presenting his
credentials.
It certainly was; for they'liad been two kindred spirits.
At the ominous word “liberality,” Scrooge frowned, and
shook his head, and handed the credentials back.
“ At this festive season of the year, Mr. Scrooge,” said the
gehtleman, taking up a pen, “ it is more than usually desi-
rable that we should make some slight provision for the Poor
and destitute, who suffer greatly at the present time. Many
thousands are in want of common necessaries; hundreds of
thousands are in want of common comforts, sir.”
“ Ar*e there no prisons ?” asked Scrooge.
“ Plenty of prisons,” said the gentleman, laying down the
pen again.
“ And the Union workhouses ?” demanded Scrooge. « Are
they still in operation ?”
“They are. Still,” returned the gentleman,l wish I
could say they were not.”


“ The Treadmill and the Poor Law are in full vigour,
then ?” said Scrooge.
“ Both very busy, sir ?”
“Oh ! I was afraid, from what you said at first, that some-
thing had occurred to stop them in their useful course,” said
Scrooge. “ I’m very glad to hear it.”
“ Under the impression that they scarcely furnish Christian
cheer of mind or body to the multitude,” returned the gentle-
man, “ a few of us are endeavouring to raise a fund to buy
the Poor some meat and drink, and means of warmth. We
choose this time, because it is a time, of all others, when Want
is keenly felt, and Abundance required. What shall I put
you down for ?”
“ Nothing !” Scrooge replied.
“ You wish to be anonymous ?”
“ l wish to be left alone,” said Scrooge. “ Since you ask
me what I wish, gentlemen, that is my answer. I don’t make
myself merry at Christmas, and I can’t afford to make idle
people merry : I help to support the establishments I have
mentioned : they cost enough : and those who are badly off
must go there.”
“ Many can’t go there ; and many would rather die.”
“ If they would rather die,” said Scrooge, “ they had better
do it, and decrease the surplus population : besides—excuse
me—l don’t know that.”
“ But you might know it,” observed the gentleman.
“ Its not my business,” Scrooge returned. “ Its enough
for a man to understand his own business, and not to interfere
with other people’s. Mine occupies me constantly. Good
afternoon, gentlemen !”
Seeing clearly that it would be quite useless to pursue their
point, the gentlemen withdrew. Scrooge resumed his labours
with an improved opinion of himself, and in a more facetious
temper than was usual with him.
Meanwhile the fog and darkness thickened so, that people
ran about with flaring links, proffering their services to go
before horses in carriages, and conduct them on their way.
The ancient tower of a church, whose gruff old bell was
always peeping slily down at Scrooge out of a Gothic window
in the wall, became invisible, and struck the hours and quar-
ters in the clouds, with tremulous vibrations afterwards, as if
its teeth were chattering in its frozen head up there. The
cold became intense. In the main street, at the corner of the
court, some labourers were repairing the gas-pipes, and had
lighted a great fire in a brazier, round which a party of
ragged men and boys were gathered, warming their hands and
winking their eyes before the blaze in rapture. The water-
plug being left in solitude, its overflowings sullenly congealed,
and turned to misanthropic ice. The brightness of the shops
where holly sprigs and berries crackled in the lamp-heat of
the windows, made pale faces ruddy as they passed. Poul-
terers’ and grocers’ trades became a splendid joke; a glorious
pageant, with which it was next to impossible to believe that
such dull principles as bargain and sale had anything to do
The Lord Mayor, in the stronghold of the mighty Mansion
House, gave orders to his fifty cooks and butlers to keep
Christmas as a Lord Mayor’s household should; and even the
little tailor, whom he had fined five shillings on the previous
Monday for being drunk and blood-thirsty in the streets,
stirred up to-morrow’s pudding n his garret, while his lean
wife and the baby sallied out to buy the beef.
Foggier yet, and colder! Piercing, searching, biting cold.
If the good Saint Dunstan had but nipped the Evil Spirit’s
nose with a touch of such weather as that, instead of using his
familiar weapons, then indeed he would have roared to lusty
purpose. The owner of one scant young nose, gnawed and
mumbled by the hungry cold as bones are gnawed by dogs,
stooped down at Scrooge’s keyhole to regale, him with a
Christmas carol; but at the first sound of
“ God bless you merry gentleman !
May nothing you dismay !”
Scrooge seized the ruler with such energy of action, that
the singer fled in terror, leaving the keyhole to the fog, and
even more congenial frost.
At length the hour of shutting up the counting-house
arrived. With an ill-will Scrooge dismounted from his stool,
and tacitly admitted the fact to the expectant clerk in the
tank, who instantly snuffed his candle out, and put on his hat.
“ You’ll want all day to-morrow, I suppose?” said Scrooge.
“ If quite convenient, sir.”
“ Its not convenient,” said Scrooge, “ and its not fair. If 1
was to stop half-a-crown for it, you’d think yourself ill used,
I’ll be bound ?”
The clerk smiled faintly.
“ And yet,” said Scrooge, “ you don’t think me ill-used,
when I pay a day’s wages for no work.”
The clerk observed that it was only once a year.
“ A poor excuse for picking a man’s pocket every twenty-
fifth of December !” said Scrooge, buttoning his great coat to
the chin. “ But I suppose you must have the whole day. Be
here all the earlier next morning !”
The clerk promised that he would; and Scrooge walked out
with a growl. The office was closed in a twinkling, and the
clerk, with the long ends of his white comforter dangling
below his waist (for he boasted no great coat), went down a
slide on Cornliill, at the end of a lane of boys, twenty times,
in honour of its being Christmas-eve, and then ran home to
Camden Town as hard as he could pelt, to play at blind-
man’s buff.
Scrooge took his melancholy dinner in his usual melan-
choly tavern; and having read all the newspapers, and
beguiled the rest of the evening with his banker’s-book, went
home to bed. He lived in chambers which had once belonged
to his deceased partner. They were a gloomy suite of rooms,
in a lowering pile of buildings up a yard, where it had so little
business to be, that one could scarcely help fancying it must
have run there when it was a young house, playing at hide-
and-seek with other houses, and have forgotten the way out
again. It was old enough now, and dreary enough, for nobody
lived in it but Scrooge, the other rooms being all let out as
offices. The yard was so dark that even Scrooge, who knew
its every stone, was fain to grope with his hands. The fog
and frost so hung about the black old gateway of the house,
that it seemed as if the genius of the weather sat in mournful
meditation on the threshold.
Now, it is a fact, that there was nothing at all particular
about the knocker on the door, except that it was very large.
It is also a fact, that Scrooge had seen it night and morning,
during his residence in that place ; also that Scrooge had as
little of what is called fancy about him as any man in the City
of London, even including—what is a bold word—the corpo-
ration, aldermen, and livery. Let it also be born in mind that
Scrooge had not bestowed one thought on Marley, since his
last mention of his seven-years’ dead partner that afternoon.
And then let any man explain to me, if he can, how it hap-
pened that Scrobge having his key in the lock of the door,
saw in the knocker, without its undergoing any intermediate
process of change : not a knocker, but Marley’s face.
Marley’s face. It was not in impenetrable shadow as the
other objects in the yard were, but had a dismal light about it,
like a bad lobster in a dark cellar. It was not angry or fero-
cious, but looked at Scrooge as Marley used to look : with
ghostly spectacles turned up upon its ghostly forehead. The
hair was curiously stirred, as if by breath or hot air; and though
the eyes were wide open, they were perfectly motionless. —
TbaL and its livid colour, made it horrible; but its horror
seemed to be in spite of the face and beyond its control, rather
than a part of its own expression.
As Scrooge looked fixedly at this phenomenon, it was a
knocker again.
To say that he was not startled, or that his blood was not
conscious of a terrible sensation to which it had been a stran-
ger from infancy, would be untrue. But he put his hand upon
the key he had relinquished, turned it sturdily, walked in, and
lighted his candle.
He did pause, with a moment’s irresolution, before he shut
the door; and he did look cautiously behind it first, as if he
half expected to be terrified with the sight of Marley’s pig-tail
sticking out into the hall. But there was nothing on the
back of the door, except the screws and nuts that held the
knocker on ; so he said “ Pooh, pooh !” and closed it with a
bang.
The sound resounded through the house like thunder.—
Every room above, and every cask in the wine merchant’s
cellars below, appeared to have a separate peal of echoes of its
own. Scrooge was not a man to be frightened by echoes. He
fastened the door, and walked across the hall, and up the stairs:
slowly too : trimming his candle as he went.
You may talk vaguely about driving a coach-and-six up a
good old flight of stairs, or through a bad young Act of Par-
liament ; but I mean to say you might have got a hearse up
that stair-case, and taken it broad wise, with the splinter-bar
towards the wall, and the door towards the balustrades : and
done it easy. There was plenty of width for that, and room to
spare; which is perhaps the reason why Scrooge thought he saw
a locomotive hearse going on before him in the gloom. Half
a dozen gas-lamps out of the street wouldn’t have lighted the


• 'ntry too well, so you may suppose that it was pretty dark with
Scrooge’s dip.
Up Scrooge went, not caring a button for that; darkness is
cheap, and Scrooge liked it. But before he shut his heavy
door, he walked through his rooms to see that all was' right.
He had just enough recollection of the face to desire to do
that.
Sitting-room, bed-room, lumber-room. All as they should
be. Nobody under the table, nobody under the sofa ; a
small fire in the grate ; spoon and basin ready ; and the little
saucepan of gruel (Scrooge had a cold in his head) upon the hob.
Nobody under the bed ; nobody in the closet ; nobody in his
dressing-gown, which was hanging up in a suspicious attitude
against the wall. Lumber-room as usual. Old fire-guard,
old shoes, two fish-baskets, washing-stand on three legs, and
and a poker.
Quite satisfied, he closed his door, and locked himself in ;
double-locked himself in, which was not his custom. Thus
secured against surprise, he took off his cravat; put on his
dressing gown and slippers, and his night-cap ; and sat down
before the fire to take bis gruel.
It was a very low fire indeed; nothing on such a bitter
night. He was obliged to sit close to it, and brood over it,
before he -could extract the least sensation of warmth from
such a handful of fuel. The fire place was an old one, built
by some Dutch merchant.long ago, and paved all around with
quaint Dutch tiles, designed to illustrate the Scriptures.—
There were Cains and Abels ; Pharoahs’ daughters, Queens of
Sheba, Angelic messengers descending through the air on
clouds like feather-beds, Abrahams, Belshazzars, Apostles
putting off to sea in butter -boats, hundreds of figures to attract
his thoughts ; and yet that face of Marley, seven years dead,
came like the ancient prophets rod, and swallowed up the
whole. If each smooth tile had been a blank at first, with
power to shape some picture on its surface from the disjointed
~g ? !e nf s of bis tllou g hts > Afire would have been a copy of
old Marley’s head on every one.
Humbug!” said Scrooge; and walked across the room.
- A ! u f e X eral turn! b he . sat down again. As be threw his
iiead back in the chair, his glance happened to rest upon a
bell, a disused bell, that hung in the room, and communicated
.or some purpose now forgotten with a chamber in the highest
story of the building. It was with great astonishment, and
with a strange, inexplicable dread, that as he looked, he saw
this bell begin to swing. It swung so softly in the outset that
st scarcely made a sound; but soon it rang out loudly, and so
did every bell in the house.
Ibis might have lasted half a minute, or a minute, but it
S w emed a?, n 10Ur * Tbe bells ceased as they had begun, toge-
ther. They were succeeded by a clanking noise, deep down
below ; as if some person were dragging a heaw chaia over the
casks in the wine merchant’s cellar. Scrooge then r -membered
to have heard that ghosts in haunted houccere described as
dragging chains.
The cellar door flew open with a booming sound, and then
he heard the noise much louder, on the floors below; then
coming up the stairs ; then coming straight towards his door.
It s humbug still !” said Scrooge. “ I won’t believe it.”
His colour changed though, when, without a pause, it came
on through the heavy door, and passed into the room before
thn„T> P T the dying flame leaped up, as
though it cried “ I know him ! Marley’s Ghost !” and fell
again.
The same face: the very same. Marley in his pig-tail, usual
waistcoat, tights, and boots ; the tassels on the latter bristling,
f nd bls co at-skirts, and the hair upon his
bead. The chain he drew was clasped about his middle. It
was long, and wound about him like a tail; and it was made
Pd± r °i 0g a obSer :t d l£closel y) of cash-boxes, keys, padlocks,
led Q eis, deeds, and heavy purses, wrought in steel. His body
S ° that Scroo - e ’ observing him, and looking
behind* *** WaiStcoat ’ could see the two buttons on his coat
JM"* ° ft ! n b€ard . i£ said tba t Marley had no bowels,
but he aad never believed it until now.
No nor did he believe it even now. * Though he looked the
phantom through and through, and saw it standing before him;
though he felt the ehilhng influence of its death-cold eyes; and
and n\T ery ° f lhe f ° lded kerchief b ™" d about its
bead and chin, vvhichwrapper he had not observed before; he
was still incredulous and fought against his senres.
Wl^rd n ° Wsaid Scrooge, caustic and cold as ever.—
\Vhat do you want with me ?”
Much ! Marley’s voice, no doubt about it.
“ Who are you ?”
“ Ask me who I was. 11
“ Who toere you then?” said Scrooge, raising his voictv—
“ \ ou’re particular—for a shade.” He was going to say “to a
shade,” but substituted this, as more appropriate.
u In life I was your partner, Jacob Marley.”
“ Can you—can you sit down ?” asked Scrooge, looking
doubtfully at him.
“ I can.”
“ Do it then.”
Scrooge asked the question, because he did’nt know whe her
a ghost so transparent might find himself in a condition to take
a chair ; and felt that in the event of its being impossible, it
might involve the necessity of an embarrassing explanation.
But the ghost sat down on the opposite side of the fire-place as
if he were quite used to do it.
“ You don’t believe in me,” observed the Ghost.
“ I don’t,” said Scrooge.
“ What evidence would you have of my reality, beyond that
of your senses ?”
“ I don’t know,” said Scrooge.
“ Why do you doubt your senses ?”
“ Because,” said Scrooge, “ a little thing affects them. A
slight disorder of the stomach makes them cheats. You may
be an undigested bit of beef, a blot of mustard, a crumb of
cheese, a fragment of an underdone potatoe. There’s more of
gravy than of grave about you, whatever you are !”
Scrooge was not much in the habit of cracking jokes, nor
did be feel in his heart, by any means waggish then. The
truth is, that he tried to he smart, as a means of distracting
his own attention, and keeping down his terror ; for the
spectre’s voice disturbed the very marrow in his bones.
To sit staring at those fixed, glazed eyes, in silence for a
moment, would play, Scrooge felt, the very deuce with him.
There was something very awful, too, in the spectre’s being
provided with an infernal atmosphere .of its own. Scrooge
could not feel it himself, but this was clearly the case ; for
though the Ghost sat perfectly motionless, its hair, and skirts,
and tassels, were still agitated as by the hot vapour from an
oven.
“ You see this tooth-pick ?” said Scrooge, returning quickly
to the charge, for the reason just assigned ; and wishing though
it were only for a second, to direct the vision’s stony ffaze
from himself.
“ I do,” replied the Ghost.
“ You are not looking at it,” said Scrooge.
“ But I see it,” said the Ghost, “notwithstanding.”
“ Well,” returned Scrooge. “ I have but to swallow this,
and be for the rest of my days persecuted by a legion of
goblins, all of my own creation. Humbug, I tell you •
humbug!”
At this, the spirit raised a fearful cry, and shook its chain
with such a dismal and appalling noise, that Scrooge held on
tight to his chair to save himself from falling in a swoon.—
But how much greater was his horror, when the phantom
taking off the bandage round its head, as if it were too warm
to wear in-doors, its lower jaw dropped down upon its breast!
. Scrooge fell upon his knees, and clasped his hands before
his face.
“ Mercy !” he said. “ Dreadful apparition, why do you
trouble me ?”
“ Ma n of wordly mind 1” replied the Ghost, “do you believe
in me or not ?”
“ I do,” said Scrooge. “ I must. But why do spirits walk
the earth, and why do they come to me ?”
“ required of every“man,” the Ghost returned, “ that
the spirit within him should walk abroad among his fellow-
men, and travel far and wide ; and if that spirit goes not forth
in life, it is condemned to do so after death. It is doomed to
wander through the world—oh, wo is me !—and witness what
it cannot share, but might have shared on earth, and turned to
happiness !”
Again the spectre raised a cry, and shook its chain, and
wrung its shadowy hands.
“ You are fettered,” said Scrooge trembling. “ Tell me why?”
“ T wear the chain I forged in life,” replied the Ghost. “ I
made it link by link, and yard by yard ; I girded it on of my
own free will, and of my own free will I wove it. Is its
pattern strange to you ?”
Scrooge trembled more and more.
“ Or would you know,” pursued the Ghost, “ the weight
and length of the strong coil you bear yourself? It was full
as heavy and as long as this, seven Christmas Eves ago.—
You have laboured on it, since. It is a ponderous chain!”


Scrooge glanced about him on the floor, in the expectation
of finding himself surrounded by some fifty or sixty fathoms of
iron cable; but he could see nothing.
“Jacob,” he said, imploringly. “Old Jacob Marley, tell
me more. Speak comfortrto me Jacob.”
“ I have none to give,” the Ghost replied. “It comes from
other regions, Ebenezer Scrooge, and is conveyed by other
ministers to other kinds of me.i. Nor can 1 tell you what I
would. A very little now, is all permitted to me. I cannot
rest, I cannot stay, I cannot linger anywhere. My spirit
never walked beyond our counting-house—mark me ! —in life
my spirit never moved beyond the narrow limits of our money-
changing hole; and weary journeys lie before me!”
It was a habit with Scrooge, whenever he became thought-
ful, to put his hands in his breeches pockets. Pondering on
what the Ghost had said, he did so now, but without lifting up
his eyes, or getting off his knees.
“ Y-ou must have been very slow about it, Jacob,” Scrooge
observed, in a business-like manner, though with humility and
deference.
“Slow ! ’ the Ghost repeated.
“ Seven years dead,” mused Scrooge “ And travelling all
the time ?”
“ The whole time,” said the Ghost. “No rest, no peace.—
Incessant torture of remorse.”
“ You travel fast?” said Scrooge.
“ On the wings of the wind,” replied the Ghost.
“ You might have got over a great quantity of ground in
seven years,” said Scrooge.
The Ghost, on hearing this, set up another cry, and clanked
its chain so hideously in the dead silence of the night, that
the Ward would have been justified in indicting it for a
nuisance.
“ Oh ! captive, bound, and double-ironed,” cried the phan-
tom, “ not to know, that ages of incessant labour by immortal
creatures for this earth must pass into eternity before the good
of which it is susceptible is all developed. Not to know that
any Christian spirit working kindly in its little sphere, what-
ever it may be, will find its mortal life too short, for its vast
means of usefulness. Not to know that no space of regret can
make, amends for one life’s opportunities misused! Tel
such was I ! Oh ! such was I!”
“ But you were always a good man of business, Jacob,”
faultered Scrooge, who now began to apply this to himself.
“ Business !” cried the Ghost, wringing its hands again.—
“ Mankind was my business. The common welfare was my
business; charity, mercy, forbearance, and benevolence, were,
all, my business.' The dealings of my trade were but a drop
of water in the comprehensive ocean of my business !”
It held up its chain at arm’s length, as if that were the cause
of all its unavailing grief, and flung it heavily on the ground
again. ~ .. T
‘ At this time of the rolling year,” the spectre said, i
suffer most. Why did 1 walk through crowds of fellow-beings
with my eyes turned down, and never raised them to that
blessed Star which led the Wise men to a poor abode ? ,Were
there no poor homes to which its light would have conducted
meV’ . .
Scrooge was very much dismayed to hear the spectre going
on at this rate, and began to quake exceedingly.
“ Hear me,” cried the Ghost. “My time is neatly
g °“ C I will,” said Scrooge. “ But don’t be hard with me !
Don’t be flowery, Jacob ! Pray !” ...
“How it is that I appear before you m a shape (hat
you can see, I may not tell, I have sat invisible beside you
many and many a day.” .
It was not an agreeable idea. Scrooge shivered, and wiped
the perspiration from his brow.
“ That is no light part of my penanee,” pursued the unost.
“I am here to-night to warn you, that you have yet a chance
and hope of escaping my fate. A chance and hope of my
procuring, Ebenezer.”
“ You were always a good friend to me, said Scrooge.
“ You will be haunted,” resumed the Ghost, by Tlnee
S} Scrooge’s countenance fell almost as low as the Ghost’s had
“Is that the chance and hope you mentioned, Jacob? he
demanded, in a faultering voice.
“ It is.”
a I—l think I’d rather not,” said Scrooge.
“ Without their visits said the Ghost, “ you cannc t -tope to
shun the path T tread. Expect the first to-morrow, when, the
bell tolls one.”
“ Couldn’t I tak’em all at once, and have it over, Jacob,”
hinted Scrooge.
“ Expect the second on the next night at the same hour.
The third upon the next night when the last stroke of Twelve
has ceased to vibrate. Look to see me no more ; and look
that, for your own sake, you remember what has passed be-
tween us 1”
When it had said these words, the spectre took its wrapper
from the table, and hound it round its head, as before, —
Scrooge knew this, by the smart sound its teeth made, when
the jaws were brought together by the bandage. He ventured
to raise his eyes again, and found his supernatural visitor
confronting him in an erect attitude, with his chain wound over
and about its arm.
The apparition walked backward from him ; and at every
step it took, the window raised itself a little, so that when the
spectre reached it, it was wide open. It beckoned Scrooge to
approach, which he did. When they were within two paces of
each other, Marley’s Ghost held up its hand, warning him to
come no nearer. Scrooge stopped.
Not so much in obedience, as in surprise and fear, for on the
raising of his hand, he became sensible of confused noises in
the air; incoherent sounds ol lamentation and regret; wail-
ings inexpressibly sorrowful and self-accusatory. The spectie,
after listening.for a moment, joined in the mournful dirge;
and floated out upon the bleak, dark night. _ .
Scrooge followed to the window; desperate in his curiosity.
He looked out.
The air was filled with phantoms, wanaenng hither and
thither in restless haste, and moaning as they went. Every
one of them wore chains like Marley’s Ghost ; some few (they
might be guilty governments) were linked together ; none were
free. Many had been personally known to Scrooge in their
lives. He had been quite familiar with an old ghost, in a white
waistcoat, with a monstrous iron safe attached to its ancle,
who cried piteously at being unable to assist a wretched
v "nan v. k. an infant, 'whom it saw below, upon a door-step.
The misery with them all was, cl y, that they sought to
interfere, for good, in human matters, and haa lost the power
for ever. . . . , ,
Whether these creatures i« .■' m o mist, or mist enshrouded
them, he could not tell. But tUy and their spirit voices faded
together ; and the night became as it had been when he walked
Scrooge closed the window, and examined the door by which
the Ghost had entered. It was double-locked, as he had locked
it with his own hands, and the bolts were undisturbed. He
tried to say kt Humbug I” but stopped at the first syllable.—
And being from the motion he had undergone, or the fatigues
of the day, or his glimpse of the Invisible World, or the dull
conversation of ike Ghost, or the lateness of the hour, much
in need of repost ; we :t straight to bed, without undressing,
and fell asleep upon the insiar.t.
Varieties.
Home.— Whatever strengthens our attachments is favour-
able .both to individual and national character. Our home—
our birth-place—our native land ! Think for a moment what
the virtues are which arise out of the feelings connected with
the word “ home.” Show us the man who cares no more for
one place than another, and we will show you in the same pel-
son one who loves nothing but himself. Beware of those who
are homeless by choice! You have no hold on a human being
whose affections are without a tap-root. Vagabond and rogue
are convertible terms. .
Carriage without Horses.— Such a one was advertised
in 1790, in London, and stated to have only one wheel. The
curious in mechanics were invited to see it. Many of the
members of the Society of Arts attended and in ardour of ex-
pectation, were shown a wheelbarrow.
Bad Writing. —An eastern writer speak ng of a man ot a
weak understanding and deformed person, but magnificently
attired, compares him to a wretched hand-writing traced in
characters of gold. , , „„ „ ,
It s said that the night before the fatal Battle of Cu.loden,
the Duke of Cumberland sent orders to General Campbell to
p-ive no quarter to the soldiers of the pretender,—that this
order being dispatched in great haste, happened to be written
on a card, and that card the nine of diamonds; from winch
time and circumstance it has gone by the appellation of the
curse of Scotland.


The Moralist.
TEMPERANCE.
The nearest approach thou canst make to happiness on this
side the -grave, is to enjoy from heaven understanding and
health.
These blessings if thou possessest, and wouldst preserve to
old age, avoid the allurements of Voluptuousness, and fly from
her temptations.
When she spreadeth her delicacies on the board, when her
wine sparkleth in the cup, when she smileth upon thee, and
persuadeth thee to be joyful and happy; then is the hour of
danger, then let Reason stand firmly on her guard.
For if thou hearkenest unto the words of her adversary, thou
art deceived and betrayed.
The joy which she promiseth, changeth to madness, and her
enjoyments lead on to diseases and death.
Look round her board ; cast thine eyes upon her guests, and
observe those who have been allured by her smiles, who have
listened to her temptations.
Are they not meagre, or bloated? are they not sickly ? are
they not spiritless ?
Their short hours of jollity and riot are followed by tedious
days of pain and dejection. She hath debauched and palled
their appetites, that they have no relish for their nicest dain-
ties; her votaries are become her victims, the just and natural
consequence which God hath ordained, in the constitution of
things, for the punishment of those who abuse his gifts.
But who is she that with graceful steps, and with a lively air,
trips over yonder plain ?
The rose blusheth on her cheeks, the sweetness of the morning
breatheth from her lips; joy, tempered with innocence and
modesty, sparkleth in her eyes, and from the cheerfulness of
her heart she singeth as she walks.
Her name is Health; she is the daughter of Exercise and
Temperance ; their sons inhabit the mountains of the northern
regions.
They are brave, active, and lively, and partake of all the
beauties and Virtues of their sister.
Vigour stringeth their nerves, strength dwelleth in their
bones, and labour is their delight all the day long.
To combat the passions is their delight; to conquer evil
habits their glory.
Their blood is pure, their minds are serene, and the physi-
cian findeth not the way to their habitations.
But safety dwelleth not with the sons of men, neither is
security found within their gates.
Behold them exposed to new dangers from without, while a
traitor within lurketh to betray them.
Their health, their strength, their beauty and activity, have
raised desire in the bosom of lascivious love.
She standeth in her bower, she courteth their regard, she
spreadeth her temptations.
Ah ! fly from her allurements, stop thy ears to her enchanting
words. If thou meetest the languishing of her eves; if thou
hearest the softness of her voice; if she casteth her arms about
thee, she bindeth thee in chains for ever.
Shame followeth, and disease, and want, and care, and repen-
tance.
Enfeebled with dalliance, with luxury pampered, and soft-
ened by sloth, strength shall forsake thy limbs, and health thy
constitution ; thy days shall be few, and those inglorious ; thy
griefs shall be many, yet meet with no compassion.
MORAL MAXIMS.
ALPHABETICALLY ARRANGED..
No. 8.
A house, filled with guests, is eaten up, and ill-spoken of.
A jealous head is soon broken.
A jest is no argument, and loud laughter no demonstration.
A joke never gains over an enemy, but often loses a friend.
A king’s favour is no inheritance.
A knave, discovered, is the greatest fool.
A knowledge of our duties is the most useful part of philo-
sophy. r
A libertine’s life is not a life of liberty.
A liar is a bravo towards God, and a coward towards man.
A lie begets a lie till they come to generations.
A lie has no legs, but scandal has wings.
A light purse is a heavy curse.
Select Poetry.
A PARENTAL ODE TO MY SON,
AGED THREE YEARS AND FIVE MONTHS.
Thou happy, happy elf!
(But, stop —first let me kiss away that tear)
Thou tiny image of myself!
(My love, he’s poking peas into his ear !)
Thou merry, laughing sprite !
With spirits feather-light,
Untouch’d by sorrow, and unsoil’d by sin—
(Good heav’ns! the child is swallowing a pin !)
Thou little tricksy Puck !
With antic toys so funnily bestruck,
Light as the singing bird that wings the air—
(The door! the door! he’ll tumble down the stair!)
Thou darling of thy sire !
(Why, Jane, he’ll set his pinafore a-firc !)
Thou imp ol mirth and joy!
In love’s dear chain, so strong and bright a link,
Thou idol of thy parents—(Drat the boy !
There goes my ink!)
Thou cherub—but of earth ;
Fit play-fellow,for fays, by moonlight pale,
In harmless sport and mirth,
(That dog will bite him, if he pulls his tail!)
Thou human humming-bee, extracting honey
From every blossom in the world that blows,
Singing in youth’s Elysium ever sunny,
(Another tumble ! That’s his precious nose !)
Thy father’s pride and hope !
(He’ll break the mirror wifh that skipping-rope !)
With pure heart newly stamp’d from nature’s mint
(Where did he learn that squint?)
Thou young domestic dove !
(He’ll have that jug off, with another sl;ove !)
Dear nursling of the hymeneal nest!
(Are those torn clothes his best?)
Little epitome of man !
(He’ll climb upon the table, that’s his plan !)
Touch’d with the beauteous tints of dawning life—
(He’s got a knife !)
Thou enviable being!
No storms, no clouds, in thy blue sky foreseeing,
Play on, play on,
My elfin John !
Toss the light ball—bestride the stick—
(l knew so many cakes would make him sick !)
With fancies, buoyant as the thistle-down,
Prompting the face grotesque, and antic brisk,
With many a lamb-like frisk,
(He’s got the scissors, snipping at your gown!)
Thou pretty opening rose!
(Go to your mother, child, and wipe your nose!)
Balmy and breathing music like the south,
(He really brings my heart into my mouth !) —
Fresh as the morn, and brilliant as its star —.
(I wish that window had an iron bar!)
Bold as the hawk, yet gentle as the dove—
(I’ll tell you what, my love!
I cannot write, unless he’s sent above!)
Hood’s Comic Annual.
THE RULING PASSION: AVARICE.
[altered from pope.]
“ I give and I devise,” old Euclio said,
“ My goods and personals to cousin Ned.”
“ Y our houses, sir ?” “My houses, sir ! what, all ?
M hy, it I must” —then wept—“ 1 give them Paul.”
" Your money, sir ?” “My money, sir!” he cry’d,
“ Not that! I can not part with that!” —and dy’d.
Niblock’s Tcxtuary.
DAY-BREAK.
See, the dapple coursers of the morn
Beat up the light with their bright silver hoofs,
And chase it through the sky.
MARSTON.


Notices.
The Editor does not hold himself responsible for the opinions and
assertions contained in the correspondence and contributions in-
serted in the Colonial Literary Journal.
“ Christmas Carol.” —We have determined, at the request of
several subscribers , on re-printing, in our Journal, Box’s last-
published ivork, A Christmas Carol, as we are given to understand
that there have reached us, as yet, but very few copies of this
popular little publication. It will be completed in five parts.
The first chapter will be found in another portion af the present
number.
In our Poetry column, last week, there appeared a very stupid
mis-print. In “A reply to ‘Solitude,’” verse 3, lined, for
unknown read known.
to Correspondents.
“ X.” —We shall not fail to give insertion, when possible, to X’s
moral extracts ; and shall be gratified with an occasional con-
tinuance of his favours.
“ District Councils,” will be inserted in our next.
“Scenes in Maneroo ; by a Shepherd.” —We have read this pro-
duction with great pleasure, and regret that our rules respecting
the limited admission of poetry prevent us from inserting so
long, but in our opinion so genuine, a poem. We recommend
strongly the author to publish it. With his leave we shall make
an extract for our next publication.
In reply to “Horace’s” kind communication, accompanying his
article inserted in another part of to-day's Journal, we assure
him that we shall gladly receive any contribution from one
possessing sentiments so congenial to our own.
All communications must be addressed to “ The Editor of the
Colonial Literary Journal, General Printing Office, 133,
King-street East," (postpaid.)
Notice to ©ountrp Subscribers.
Subscribers in the Country are requested to forward their name s
and subscriptions to the nearest Agents, where no Agent has,
as yet, been appointed in their immediate neighbourhood; as
the expense of postage of a letter to the Publishers in Sydney,
is a considerable encroachment upon the very slender amount
of a Quarterly Subscription.
Subscribers are informed that as back Nos. cannot go through
the Post, they must inform us by what means the earlier Nos.
are to be forwarded to them without expense to the Publishers.
In anstver to complaints of non-delivery of Papers, ive can only
say that the Nos. have been regularly inserted in the Post
Office to tlteir respective directions.
WEEKLY MISCELLANY.
THE PROSPECTS AND RESOURCES OF THE
COLONY.
FURTHER CONSIDERATION OF THE IMPORTANT ADVAN-
TAGES WE DERIVE FROM THE VARIOUS APPLICATIONS
OF HEAT.
The accumulation of heat in any substance, depends
entirely upon its density or solidity : heat may be
conveyed through solid bodies, many of which will
become red hot; but all porous bodies have the greater
capacity to receive heat, aud they only will emit
flame, and that at a certain and fixed temperature.
Tallow and oil require a considerable heat to melt
them, and the light given is in proportion to the
rapidity of the melting. The cotton wicks are vege-
table substances, and when heated the tallow and oil
are decomposed and carried off in vapour. This
powerful chemical action, which raises the tempe-
rature to ignition and decomposition of the heated
material, is what is called combustion. Almost every-
thing in nature is injured or destroyed by excessive
heat, but some of the metals, such as gold, silver, and
platinum, may be rendered purer by heat, and there-
fore more valuable. We ourselves are so constituted,
that both internal and external heat must have its
boundaries; too much heat in the animal system will
produce fever ; too great a radiation from fire will
destroy or decompose the portion radiated upon. For
both these sad contingencies Divine wisdom has pro-
vided remedies, and Chemistry has discovered that
nature produces antidotes for the superabundant heat,
which when skilfully and promptly applied, will
lessen its temperature and restore the functions to
their natural order. Fire and light are synonymous
terms, and denote heat at a temperature which is
visible. All fire can be extinguished by water, pro-
vided that it be thrown on in sufficient quantity, but
if only a small portion be thrown on, it will rather
increase than diminish the combustion. Coal and
wood contain hydrogen, and will burn with a flame
while they retain any portion of it, for it is the
hydrogen gas that is burning whenever we see flame.
If a small quantity of water be poured on an ardent
flame, the water will become decomposed, the hydrogen
will be received into the burning materials, and the
flame will be increased ; when a great quantity is
poured on, the heat is lessened, and can no longer
decompose the water ; thus the fire is overwhelmed
or extinguished. Nevertheless, when the hydrogen
gas in wood and coal is all consumed, they will burn
for a short time with a red heat, but without any
flame, as we see in the burning of coke and cinders;
but this decreased heat can only exist while there are
any pores in the material to receive the oxygen from
the air ; when it has become altogether saturated with
oxygen, it will burn no more; it is then called oxide.
The oxides, or ashes of burnt coal, are used for
manure. Turf or peat is used sometimes instead of
coal •. these are pieces of earth cut from those parts
where there is found much remains of vegetable
substance. The vegetable parts become first heated,
and pass off in vapour ; the earthly parts will assume
a red heat, which continues for a length of time, and
it then crumbles into powder.
Substances are said to be decomposed when their
separate parts are attracted by heat or gas, and they
thus become divided or unmingled, so that they no
longer adhere together. The separation of substances
by art is called analysis. It is because heat enters
into all the pores in porous bodies that the most cele-
brated philosophers have considered it to be an in-
visible fluid or gas. The earth itself is a porous
body, and is often sufficiently heated to emit flame,
as is seen in volcanic eruptions. Earthy bodies, like
water, are expanded by heat, for heat not only passes
from one body to another, but it also passes con-
tinually from particle to particle, in each substance ;
therefore while the substance is increasing in heat
it is becoming enlarged, for the heat is occupying the
minute spaces between each particle ; even iron, the
hardest of metals, will be expanded by heat, and con-
tract again when cooled. This property in iron is
often extremely useful in mechanism ; for instance,
carriage wheels are made of wood, which would
swell and become uneven if they were not bound
with iron—for this purpose the iron is put on the
wheel while hot, and when it cools, it does by its
contraction draw the wheel close and keep it always
confined to one extent.
To us, as a race of beings for whom this world was
created, the sun is the source of all heat, for unto the
extent to which the earth is heated by its rays, and
no further, is the earth itself rendered subservient to
our use and jleasure, The sun must therefore ever


be looked upon as the great instrument of Divine
power to produce heat. The sun, under the present
laws of the natural system of the universe, does not
send forth its rays of heat beyond the depth of one
hundred feet below the surface of the earth ; there-
fore the heat or caloric which is described as ex-isting
in all things, is spoken of only in reference to that
portion. That there is another great and powerful
action of heat ever emanating from the central depth
of this habitable globe, cannot be doubted, for it has
been ascertained that when Ave cut deeply into it, the
temperature is much higher, and it is calculated'that
if we should continue cutting, the heat Avould be
found to increase so rapidly, that'at an extent of one
hundred miles inward there would be found melted
earth. It is the expansion of those internal heated
materials that causes them to burst through the earth
in the form of volcanoes, or to be heard and felt
within, as in the phenomena of earthquakes. It is
supposed that all the mountains and hills on the
earth’s surface were formed by the ebullitions of heat
from its centre. There must have been a time when
the central heat was more powerful than it is at pre-
sent, to account for the immense ridges of mountains
which are found in various parts of the earth, the
numbers of Avhich have so rarely been added to during
the records of ages. All these powerful effects of heat
are caused by the two grand principles in nature of
a tendency to equilibrium and central gravity. All
the commotions of the air from whence arise such
dreadful storms by sea and land, are produced by the
struggle of the aerial gases in the atmosphere to
equalise their position, and all the internal com-
bustion and explosion of the earth—Avhence arise
earthquakes, volcanoes, boiling fountains and inun-
dations—may be traced to the same all-prevailing
poAver.
It has been often remarked that chemical operations
aie A T ery imperfectly carried on in this colony, in con-
sequence of the scanty supply of apparatus necessary
to produce the beneficial results. This deficiency can
only be occasioned by the lack of mechanics, or the
Avant of due guidance in their manufacture. The
vessels chiefly used are made either of iron, glass, or
earthenAvare, and as this country produces native iron
ore in abundance, and also flint, added to which, our
profuse supply of fine siliceous earth that cannot be
much inferior to the China clay, it would turn out
a very good speculation to any person, Avith even a
small capital, to start a concern for making the neces-
sary utensils for working the numerous products of
this very fertile country.
The. mention of “ fine silicious earth” leads me to
beg leave to suggest to the public an attempt to dis-
cover in this colony a plant which is found in many
other countries growing near the sea, as a possible
means of putting a stop to the troublesome effects
which take place so frequently on the Surry Hills
and the South Head roads by the falling of the sands.
I he English call this plant bent-star, or mat-grass:
by the Scotch it is called murah ; the Dutch and
Hermans call it helm : it will grow only on pure
san . A single plant Avill fix the sand and gather
it into a hillock ; these hillocks, by the increase of
vegetation, are formed into larger, and I have seen
them near the mouth of the river Elbe, in Germany,
become quite a barrier against the encroachments of
the sea. The plant has stiff and sharp-pointed leaves,
growing like a rush, about a foot and a half long ;
the roots both creep and penetrate deeply into their
sandy beds; the stalk bears an ear not unlike rye.
I have heard it remarked by a late dear friend, a
native of Scotland, that Providence had kindly formed
this plant to grow only in pure sand, and that no
cattle will eat or touch this vegetable, it being allotted
for other purposes subservient to the use and benefit
of mankind.
PHRENOLOGY.
[For the Colonial Literary Journal.]
No. V.
The character of the Scots nation is one, perhaps*
more strongly marked than that of any other people
in Europe. Scotsmen (and crows) are found in almost
every part of the world, and wherever they are they
constitute a distinct class, being in general superior
in intelligence to the mass around them. A Scots-
man, indeed, is almost as easily recognised as a
Jew. In consequence of this marked individuality of
character, it is evident that the consideration of such
a people must be peculiarly interesting to the Phreno-
logist. A nation occupying a position in the world,
apparently so insignificant and under the greatest
difficulties, preserving against a powerful and weal-
thy enemy that freedom which it is the proudest boast
of, perhaps, the proudest nation in the world, that
they have never lost, must present a wide and inte-
resting field of research to the observer of character.
And it is an anomaly in the history of Scotland, not
to be found perhaps in that of any other modern
nation, that in its national character have been united
the niost opposite and apparently irreconcilable quali-
ties. This peculiar nation has, at the same time,
been distinguished for the most savage barbarity, and
the most refined elegance of character ; has been
characterised by the blackest perfidy and the most
devoted fa th ; by the most bigoted intolerance and
the most enlightened and liberal views.
All the elements of a great character, whether good
or bad, have been jumbled together in the Scots people,
in the strangest confusion. It does not come under
the peculiar province of this article, to investigate
the causes of this diversity of traits in their disposi-
tion. But perhaps we are not far from the truth in
asserting, that it was the oppression of tyrannical
rulers, calling into action the passions of a people in
the last degree imperious and averse to restraint, and
enlisting in the cause of these passions an intellect at
once comprehensive and acute, which formed the
principle cause of these violent outbreaks of enthu-
siasm, which have convulsed the Scottish nation at
every period of her eventful history.
The size of the Scotch head is almost without ex-
ception above the average ; in general, very large.
The intellectual portion of the brain manifests the
greatest developement, and of this portion, perhaps,
the reflective faculties are the largest. This, with
the very large developement of Caution usually
observable in the Scots cranium, accounts for that
intuitive foresight, circumspection and prudence, for
which that nation is famed. The term 11 long-headed
Scotchman” implying sagacity and acuteness, is be-
stowed with the greatest justice. A powerful develope-
ment of the intellect will cause the forehead to protrude
so much, as considerably to elongate the head ; but


it is quite consistent with Phrenology for a man to
possess a very long head, and yet be a most egregious
fool. This shows how careful tyros in the Science
should be, in showing off their Phrenological skill to
admiring friends, for blunders bringing discredit o.n
it are always imputed to the fallacy of its doctrines,
seldom to the ignorance of the conceited dabbler in
things about which he knows nothing.
Wit is very fully developed in the Scotch head,
but is manifested in their character, in humour, rather
than in that sparkling effervescence of spirits, which
even on the scaffold cannot leave the mirth-loving
Frenchman. Humour is the combination of Wit and
Secretiveness, and the Scots are rather eminently
distinguished for this quality. The novels of Sir
Walter Scott abound in instances of this trait of
character. The old Scottish songs and ballads also
contain numberless sly allusions and comic touches,
which convulse the person who understands them with
more laughter than all the bon mots ever uttered.
The clanship and patriotism of the Scots have been
always remarkable, and are the result of almost in-
variable large Adhesiveness and Concentrativeness or
Inhabitiveness. Philoprogenitiveness, also very
largely developed in their head, is apparent in their
attention to their children’s welfare, especially in
providing them with a good education, and inculcating
moral and religious principles upon their minds.
The Scots are extremely hospitable, the result of
large Benevolence ; but their selfishness, the conse-
quence of large Acquisitiveness and Self-esteem is
often remembered to their disadvantage. Indeed, to
this marked characteristic of the Scots, as much as to
their prudence may be ascribed their usual success
in whatever department of life they happen to be
placed. Tune and Time are largely developed in
their head, and certainly Scotch music yields to none
in the world, in point of simplicity and expression,
joined to the most exquisite pathos that melts the soul
under its unaffected fervour, and the ivildest and
most fantastic bursts of merriment.
Melancholy is a common characteristic of Scotch
music, and their moderate Hope and large Caution,
together with the wild and dark deeds of frequent
occurrence when most of these melodies were com-
posed, may account for this fact. Possessed of large
Veneration and Wonder, the Scots have always
manifested a religious character ; indeed their over-
religious zeal has been one of their greatest failings.
The history of the Covenanters inspires us at once with
feelings of the greatest admiration and the deepest
regret.
We admire the noble, the heroic devotion of men,
who, in defence of their revered religion, were ready
to lay down their lives ; to see their homes made a
desert, their feeble wives and children, and their in-
firm parents, butchered by merciless oppressors, before
they would swerve from the faith which they pro-
fessed—from what their conscience told them was
right. Such heroism calls for our warmest admira-
tion. On the other hand, we can but grieve to see a
people hurried by their enthusiastic zeal into the wild-
est excesses, and in the name of religion committing
the grossest atrocities. There is a remarkable lesson to
be learnt from this—a stern truth is taught us—we
see how much of evil there is in our best of deeds.
The valour of the Scots is one of their characteristic
qualities: to point out the instances of this would be
superfluous. It differs, however, from the com acre of
the Irish in being much cooler and more determined,
and resembles pretty closely that of the English.
The motto that encircles their Thistle, “ Nemo me
impane lacesset ,” is strikingly illustrative of their
fierceness and pride. The organs of Combaliveness,
Destructiveness, Firmness and Self-conceit, are all
eminently developed in their head, and there is no
doubt that it is the active manifestation of these
faculties in their character, that has contributed in a
great degree to enable them to retain their indepen-
dence inviolate, and to render Scotland, although one
of the smallest, one of the most eminent nations in the
world. Perhaps we cannot more appropriately con-
clude this article, than with the following quotation
from Scott’s “ Don Roderick,” descriptive of the
Scots portion of the British army •. —
And oh! loved warriors of the Minstrel’s land!
Yonder your bonnets nod, your tartans wave!
The rugged form may mark the mountain band,
And harsher features, and a mien more grave ;
But ne’er in battle-field throbbed heart so brave
As that which beats beneath the Scottish plaid;
And when the pibroch bids the battle rave,
And level for the charge your arms are laid,
Where lives the desperate foe that* for such onset staid !
ÆNEAS.
MATHEMATICS.
[For the Colonial Literary Journal.]
No. 111.
According to the arrangement already specified, we
now direct our attention to that portion of Mathe-
matics styled Algebra, derived from an Arabian
phrase signifying “ restoration and reduction .” To
which science, it is to be regretted, very few in this
portion of the Globe attach that importance which it
merits, or in fact; to any other. They in general con-
clude—as a wealthy colonist and head of a numerous
family once remarked to us —“ why, Ido not see the
good ; it may be all be very fine ; but I do not per-
ceive that it enables a man to get a bit the better
through the world.” Because he could not immedi-
ately “ see,” therefore he concluded there was no
ultimate utility to die derived from such studies ; the
importance of which, we have already briefly shewn,
and consequently to enlarge on it here, would savour
a little of tautalogy.
It seems that the abbve logical conclusion is uni-
versally arrived at in this Colony, and though parents
design to give their children an education, they cease
to afford them opportunities just when they become
most capable of progressing, and when they begin to
appreciate the vast advantages likely to accrue to them,
from a close application to the acquisition of know-
ledge ; but at this very period their attention must be
directed to a different channel, to the plodding details
of some money-making business.
“ Perhaps a father, blest with any brains,
Would deem it no abuse, or waste of pains
T’ improve this diet, at no great expense—
With savouring truth and wholosome confimon sense,
To lead his son, for prospects of delight,
To some not steep, though philosophic height.”
But the greatest philosophic height is to be some
tall desk, at which he prematurely forgets all he has
acquired, as though he had partaken of the waters of
Lethe ; and the parent’s greatest ambition is, that his
future representative shall learn the readiest way of
rearing heaps of £. s. d.


We deem it necessary to apologise for this apparent
digression, though it still hinges on our original inten-
tion, to endeavour to attract some slight notice to the
straggling and superficial education of many of our
Colonial youth, from the brief period (generally
speaking) they are allowed to pursue their studies.
This is an undoubted fact. And it is much to be
regretted, that it is not more universally known, how
wonderful and beneficial an influence a liberal and
scientific education exerts over the mind—
“‘Where science smiles, the muses join the train,
. And gentlest arts and purest manners reign.”
The one before us (Algebra) ranks as one of the
most important, for it may be termed a key to all the
rest, and requires, to commence its study, only a
knowledge of the four fundamental rules of Arith-
metic, and an acquaintance with common and decimal
fractions ; it is the want of this much knowledge that
gives to the science that dry, and almost repulsive
character, Avhich is attached to it. We regard Geo-
metry with admiration, on account of the simplicity
of its principles, and the chaste elegance of its de-
monstrations ; we admire Arithmetic for its utility,
though limited in its application ; but Algebra de-
lights us as an analytic art, because it is both general
and comprehensive. It is equally strict in its process
of reasoning, and equally beneficial in its results, as
the science of Euclid itself.
lo trace this science of Algebra from its commence-
ment to the present day, would be to exceed our
limits. It will suffice, therefore, to give a bare out-
line of what we should wish to detail in full.
It is a science of the utmost antiquity, for we are
justified in concluding that its origin begins from a
date long prior to that of which we have any authentic
account, namely, that of Diophantus of Alexandria,
who flourished in the third century, and is the inven-
tor of that part of Algebra, styled in honour of him,
the “ Diophantine Analysis” It is a contested point,
whether Diopliantus received his knowledge from the
Hindoos, or they afterwards from him ; whether such
be the case or not, we are unable to decide ; but histo-
rians of the science say there is a great similarity
between the two, but that the Indian is considered
much superior, which would lead us to infer that
theirs is only an improvement, and consequently of
later date.
The Persians and Arabians certainly received their
knowledge of the science from the Hindoos, and to a
tieatise by an Arabian philosopher, we are indebted
for its importation into Europe, a translation of which
appeared in 1831, by Dr. Rosen.
Its first was in Italy, about the begin-
ning of the thirteenth century, the science was then,
as it were, only in its infancy, and received no im-
provement till the middle of the sixteenth century,
when it travelled into France, Germany, and Britain.
About which time the Italians began to make some
improvements in it, as if jealous of that honour beino-
claimed by some other nation ; the eccentric Cardan
was the first, who was known at that time, as Cardan
the magician ; but prior to the time of Vieta, a
frenchman, letters were not made use of to designate
any quantities but those sought. It was in the year
1603, that this great improvement was made, namely
that letters should represent known, as well as un-
known quantities. In the same century, in fact
within a few years of this invention of Vieta, Harriot
of England carried out and extended the views of the
inventor. From which time, a host of improvements
took place, and writer after writer upon the subject
appeared, improving as they rose, till Algebra has
now', as a science, approached its climax.
The most celebrated amongst our own authors have
been New Ton, Maclaurin, Sanderson, Simpson, Emer-
son and Walker; and on the continent, Euler, La-
grarge, Lacroix and Descartes.
A slight compendium of whose lives will form a
very profitable subject for a future article.
T. L. D.
Original Poetry.
WE CAN’T AFFORD TO DO IT!
[to be sung in character, at the mayor’s fancy ball.}
I am a squatter bold and free,
A man of thews and sinews,
No stockman harder rides than me,
Nor longer out continues—
» My flocks across the open plains,
My cattle through the forest,
I follow in the winter rains
And when the droughts are sorest; —
Me hinders not the tangled brush,
Swamp, creek, nor gully frightful,
Nor log nor sawpit in the bush,
When mounted and in flight full.
O glorious is the squatter’s life,
With but this drawback to it—
No tidy home—no loving wife—
I can’t afford to do it!
“ Where is thy lonely dwelling found
Thou wild and fearless squatter ?”
“ Beyond the territorial bound,
Upon tlie Barwyn water—
A little hut of slabs and bark
O’erlooks the pastures grassy,
Behind it frowns the forest dark,
Dark-shadow’d, tall and massy !
My fleecy coats are thousands ten,
My horned heads ten hundred, —
There I and twenty shepherd men
Fiom social life are sunder’d, —
No church, shop, tavern, near the place,—
Nor letter-bag goes through it, —
Nor lovely woman’s smiling face—
We can’t afford to do it!”
“ How dost thou fare, thou squatter brave,
Thou interesting savage !
What help and comforts wilt thou have
When wounds and sickness ravage ?”
“ A quart of tea three times a day,
Wood-roasted steaks and damper—
Tobacco—grog to cheer the way
Of rare and casual tramper.
But champagne bottles now no more
We shy, like lazy lubbers,
Nor meet from far at whist to score
Sheep points and bullock rubbers.
There’s something ever doing still,
And stoutly we pursue it, —
We have not leisure to fall ill—
We can’t afford to do it!”
r “ W hy live so hard and lone a life,
Young, handsome, thriving squatter ?
Why don’t you look out for a wife,
Some worthy neighbour’s daughter ?”
__ “ Ah, I do love a gentle one,
None better is nor fairer!
But can I put her on my run
Of sylvan life a sharer ?
1 canrrot offer to my bride
A floorless habitation !
No, I must jog along a while
Upon a single ration.
The “squatting” license I must pay,
If Government will screw it;
The “ special” one must bear delay—
I can’t afford to do it!”
X. S.


MR. RAE’S LECTURE ON THE GENIUS AND
CHARACTER OF ROBERT BURNS.
Mr. Rae’s introductory lecture on this topic, so interesting
to all admirers of genuine and native genius, was delivered at
the School of Arts, on Monday evening, the sth Instant.
We were much delighted to see a lecture, on a subject not
supposed to be generally interesting, attended by an over-
flowing audience, who shewed, by the greatest attention, their
full appreciation both of the merits of the subject and the
capability of the lecturer.
The talented lecturer commenced with some preliminary
observations on poetry in general, strengthened by a few
beautiful and striking extracts, from popular writers, in favor
of the position he took—that the subject (poetry) is not
unsuited to, nor unappreciated by, any class of the cotn-
munity ; also, that, even at the worst of times as regards
monetary depression, there is no necessity for depriving
ourselves of the pleasures of imagination ; or that we should
consider poetry as “a mere frivolous accomplishment”—
“ a chain of gilded nothings”—“ a honied lie”—“ a fiction
dressed up with the plumes of reality”—“a thing to laugh
and wonder at, though not to be believed’’—but rather that
we should turn to it, among other resources, as a relaxation
from the cares of business, and as conducing greatly to the
improvement of the mind.
We cannot refrain from quoting Mr. Rae’s remarks at this
part of his lecture.
Life and nature arefull of poetry. ‘ Wherever, says Hazlitt,
there isa sense of beauty, or power, or harmony, asin the motion
of a wave of the sea, or the growth of a flower that spreads its
sweet leaves to the air and dedicates its beauty to the sun—
there is poetry in its birth. If history is a grave study, poetry
may be said to be a graver—its materials lie deeper, and are
spread wider. Fear is poetry —hope is poetry —love is poetry
—hatred is poetry ; contempt, jealousy, remorse, admiration,
wonder, pity, despair, madness, are all poetry. Poetry is
that fine particle within us that refines, rarifies, raises‘our
whole being. If poetry is a dream, the business of life is
much the same—if it is a fiction, made up of what we wish
things to be T and fancy that they are, because we wish them
so, there is no other nor better reality. Plato banished the
poets from his commonwealth, lest their descriptions of the
natural man should spoil his mathematical man, who was to
be without passions and affections, who was neither to laugh
nor weep, to feel sorrow nor anger, to be cast down nor elated
by anything, This was a chimera, however, which never
existed but in the brain of the inventor; and Homer’s poetical
world has outlived Plato’s philosophical republic.’ ”
Mr. Ray proceeded—
“ Poetry, then, is not a mere plaything for children. If its
finest conceptions require the highest powers of the highest
minds, they can be fully understood and appreciated only by
kindred spirits. It is one of the highest of God’s gifts to
mankind. Take away the poetry of life, and what is left
worth living for ? Poetry has, been pre-eminently instru-
mental in the civilization of the world in all ages. It lifts the
soul above the sordid affairs of life —whispers peace to the
troubled mind —carries us away from the present, and lulls us
to repose in the lap of the past —revives the delightful recol-
lections of childhood and youth—places before us in fresh and
undying colours, the green fields of the home of our nativity—
opens up the storehouse of human feelings, affections, and
passions, ‘knits us by new ties with universal being; and
through the brightness of its prophetic visions helps forth to
lay hold on the future life.’
“ ‘ The poet’s eye in a fine frenzy rolling,
Doth glance from heaven to earth, from earth to heaven ;
And as imagination bodies forth
The forms of things unknown, the poet’s pen
Turns them to shape, and gives to airy nothing
A local habitation and a name.’
“ But this is not the whole of the poet’s art. His range of
subjects is unbounded by time or space. The material and
immaterial world are open to his view. The past is present
at his bidding, and the film falls from his eyes as he glances
into the womb of futurity. Things which are common-place
to common men, are to him arrayed in surpassing beauty,
and awaken the finest feelings of his nature. The man of the
world, or the heartless sentimentalist, would find but few
materials for poetry iq the simple accident of a plough-share
turning up the nest of a mouse : but to a man with the large
warm heart of Robert Burns beating in his breast, such an
incident gives rise to some of the sweetest verses that ever
gushed from a feeling soul. The whole poem is beautiful,
but how exquisite is the moral with which he sums up the
mouse’s misfortunes.
“ If anything in poetry can surpass the touching simplicity
of these lines, it must be looked for in the pages of Burns
himself: and if we turn to his verses to a Mountain Daisy
which was broken down by the same ruthless ploughshare, we
shall find a common-place occurrence giving rise to a series of
moral similies which for propriety and beauty can hardly be
surpassed.”
Here the lecturer read these two pathetic pieces with a
taste and feeling that must have touched the sensibility of
every auditor ; and continued
“ Say not then that the poet’s song is all a lie. The philo-
pher, the moralist, or the divine, might be proud to have
produced such sentiments as these; but it was only the poet—
and such a poet as Burns—that could have extracted such
honey from such a flower. Say not we are wrong in calling
the public mind from the harrassing cares of the world, and
fixing it for a time on the genius, and character, and writings,
of this extraordinary man, who gave birth to these exquisite
verses, and to thousands besides which are destined never to
die.”
The lecturer remarked, that the finest pieces of the Scottish
poet, were written in his native dialect, so that the English
cannot fully appreciate his beauties. He then proceeded to
give a slight sketch of that dialect—its gradual deviation from
the old English, from the time of Bruce up to the sixteenth
century —with its gradual return or assimilation since the
incorporation of the two nations—and a considerable approxi-
mation in the language even since the time of Burns, so that
in another century it is probable the dialect of Burns may be
as unintelligible to his countrymen, as that of our first great
poet Chaucer is to us at the present time.
Speaking of the enthusiasm felt by Scotchmen towards this
poet, (which, before we had the real pleasure of listening
to Mr. Rae’s eloquent description of the beauty of his poetry,
we thought, as do many Englishmen, was carried to excess,)
and the instruction and delight afforded to the Scottish pea-
santry, the lecturer said much that we are unwilling to leave
altogether unquoted.
“ Without attending to the comprehensive meaning of his
phraseology,” said Mr. Rae, “ and allowing for the tender
recollections and agreeable associations which the language of
our early years invariably calls forth, it would be impossible
for Englishmen, I will not say fully, to comprehend the merits
of bis poetry, but even to account for the delight and enthu-
siasm with which his works are perused by every leal-hearted
son of the ‘ Land of Cakes,’ more particularly when far distant
from the home of his nativity.
“ No poet ever lived more constantly and more endearingly
in the hearts of a whole people. No man ever did so much
to elevate the character of his peers and companions—the
Scottish peasantry. A peasant by birth—and a ploughman—
a flax dresser—and a guager by profession—enduring by his
own account ‘ the cheerless gloom of a hermit, with the un-
ceasing moil of the galley slave,’ be was well qualified to tell
from bitter experience the sorrows that affect the poor.
“ Need it then be surprising that the cottagers of Scotland
look upon Burns as the greatest poet that ever lived ? Speak-
ing a language which they understand—celebrating in his
verses their own sports and pastimes—painting their manners
and customs—vindicating and exalting their character—and
singing sweet songs of themselves on the banks and braes of
their own darling streams—Burns has a just claim to their
admiration, and he receives it His name is engraved on
the hearts of his countrymen. The name of Burns is one of
the first which the children of Scotland learn to spell. His
works have found their way into the hamlets of the humblest
dweller amidst our heather hills—they have cheered the hearts
of thousands returned from their daily toil; and they will fail
to communicate instruction and delight, only when the natural
feelings of mankind are extinguished, or the language in which
they are written ceases to be spoken or understood.
“ To those people who are compelled to earn their bread by
the sweat of their brow—who work more with their hands than
their heads, the contemplation of such a character as Burns,
must be both interesting, instructive, and consolatory. In
Burns they will find that the noblest sentiments—the most
refined taste —the clearest insight into human character —are
not inconsistent with the humblest conditions of life. They
will find that the hardest and most constant bodily labour
—the greatest amount of privation and poverty —the most


uncongenial occupations—and the least advantageous circum-
stances and situation to the developement of the finest powers
of the intellect —are not sufficient to chain the soaring spirit of
man to the dust. They will point with pride to the achieve-
ments which have been performed by one of their own order —
they will hold him up as a pattern to themselves and their
children —-and they will rise from the contemplation of the
character and genius of this extraordinary man, better satisfied
with the condition which Providence has assigned them—and
more confirmed in the belief that the bounties of Providence —
although unequally are not unjustly distributed,”
The lecturer then dilated upon the character of the Scottish
peasantry, as shrewd and intelligent—the great advantages
accruing to them from the parochial system of education —
their love of music—and ended with a description of their
strong domestic attachments and ardent love of country.
Mr. Rae concluded amidst great applause—notifying his
intention to continue the subject, by the delivery of at least,
three additional lectures, on the Monday evenings, at half-past
seven o’clock.
The above quotations and remarks were intended to be in -
serted in our last publication : thinking they will not now be
uninteresting to our readers, we have not omitted them. We
must congratulate the Managing Committee of the Mechanics’
School of Arts on their obtaining a lecturer so deservedly
popular as Mr. Rae, and so fully master of his subject.
LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL.
WEEKLY ABSTRACT.
WEDNESDAY.
The Speaker read 4o the House a letter received from
Mr. Elwin acknowledging the intimation of the reso-
lution which had been passed, relative to his services
as Chairman of Committees of the House.
After several notices of motion, Mr. Cowper moved
for leave to bring in a Bill for regulating Marriages
in New South Wales ; and also a Bill for the registra-
tion of Marriages, Births, Baptisms, and Burials in
New South Wales.
Leave being given, and the Bills read a first time,
Mr. Cowper moved for a Select Committee, which
was granted.
Petitions were presented by Messrs. Foster, Win-
deyer, and Bland.
Mr. Young moved for leave to bring in a Bill to
provide for the erection of a Medical Board at Mel-
bourne, similar to that which existed in Sydney, to
which Medical men arriving at Melbourne might
submit their qualifications, in order to enable them to
pursue the practice of their profession.
Leave was granted, and the Bill was read a first
time.
Mr. Wentworth moved for leave to bring in a Bill
to regulate the sale of fermented and spirituous
liquors in New South Wales.
Bill read a first time.
Mr. Wentworth moved for leave to bring in a bill
to amend the laws relating to the distribution of fees,
fines, and penalties in certain cases-
The Colonial Secretary moved for leave to bring
in a Bill to continue for a further limited time, an Act,
intituled “ An Act to facilitate the apprehension of
transported felons and offenders illegally at large,
and of persons found with arms and suspected to be
robbers.”
Leave having been given, the Bill was introduced
and read a first time.
The Colonial Secretaty proposed the considera-
tion of the Governor’s Message on the subject of the
the salary of the Chairman of Committees.
The Message having been read,
The Council resolved itself into a Committee of the
whole House to consider the subject, and the sum of
£lO3 9s. lOd. was appropriated to meet the salary of
the Chairman of Committees for the remainder of the
present session, being at the rate of £250 per annum
from the Ist January last.
The Council then resolved itself into- Committee for
the purpose of considering the Supplementary Esti-
mates of Expenditure for the year 1844. After
having voted numerous items, the Council resumed.
The Law of Libel was read a second time, upon the
motion of Mr. Robinson.
THURSDAY.
After some notices of motion, the House resolved
itself into Committee on the Supplementary Estimates,
when the sum of £2BO was voted for the making of
the *Electoral Lists, and £2OOO towards building a
bridge over the Yarra Yarra, Melbourne. The House
then resumed, and the Chairman of Committees re-
ported the votes, which were agreed to.
In reply to Mr. Robinson’s enquiry, whether the
Government intended to take steps with the present
almost impassable state of the Parramatta Road, the
Colonial Secretary replied that the Government really
had no means of providing for the necessary repairs.
Mr. Wentworth then rose to move, “ That this
Council do not proceed to the consideration of the
Estimates for 1845, until so much of the territorial
and casual revenues of the Crown, as is not appropria-
ted by the sth and 6th Victoria, c. 36, be placed at
the disposal of this Council, and if this Resolution be
adopted, that an address be presented to the Gover-
nor, communicating the same.”
In supporting the motion, Mr. Wentworth ground-
ed his argument on a supposed compact between the
Legislature of the Colony and Sir Richard Bourke,
and concluded with proposing a slight alteration,
namely, in lieu of the last paragraph of the motion
as above, that the following be substituted, “ in pur-
suance of the compact entered into between Sir
Richard Bourke, Governor, and the Legislature of
this Colony in 1835, under the direction of the Lords
of the Treasury.”
After considerable argument, an Amendment
moved by Mr. Young was carried upon a division, by
24 to 7. The Amendment moved by Mr. Young was,
that an address be presented to his Excellency the
Governor, requesting that he will be pleased to take
the necessary steps to induce the Home Government
to place at the disposal of this Council so much of the
Territorial and Casual Revenues o'f the Crown as is
not appropriated by the sth and 6th Victoria, c. 36.
FRIDAY.
After some notices of motion,
Mr. Cowper moved an address to the Governor—
the purport of which was to inform His Excellency
of the opinion of the Council relative to the District
Councils, as shewn by a resolution passed on the 25th
July. The address proceeds to request the Governor
to be pleased to make such a representation to the
EFome Government as will procure a repeal of those
clauses of the Act of Parliament, which refer to the
erection of District Councils; and concluding by a
request that the Governor will be pleased to place
upon the Estimates for 1845, such sums as may in
his opinion be necessary for such objects as it was in-
tended should be provided for by the District Councils.
The motion was supported at great length by Mr.
Foster, Mr. Berry, Mr. Walker, Mr. Bland, Dr.


Nicholson, Mr. Windeyer, Mr. Lowe, and Mr. Went-
worth ; and opposed by the Colonial Secretary, the
Attorney-General, Mr. Hamilton* and Mr. Therry.
The motion was carried on division by a majo-
rity of 12.
The Port Phillip Insolvent Act Amendment Bill
was read a second time.
The Bushranger Act Continuation Bill was read a
third time and passed.
The Colonial Spirits Exportation Bill was read a
second time.
The Hawkers and Pedlars Bill was considered in
Committee and reported.
Shipping intelligence.
ARRIVALS.
August B.—The steamer Sovereign, 119 tons, Captain Cape,
from Moreton Bay, the sth instant, with tallow, &c.
August 9.—The steamer William the Fourth 53 tons, Captain
Wiseman, from the Clarence River'the 7th instant, with 29 bales
of wool, &c.
August 10. —The schooner Waterlily, 155 tons, Captain
Ilayle, from Hobart Town the 31st ultimo, with flour, &c.
August 10.—The ship London, 612 torts, Captain Atwood,
from Hobart Town 31st ultimo, with sundries.
August 12. —The brig Soundraporvy, 208 tons, Captain
Espinasse, from Port Phillip 3rd instant, with potatoes &c.
August 12 —The schooner Will Watch , 63 tons, Captain
Taylor, from Launceston the 3rd instant, with wheat, &c,
August 12.—The steamer Maitland, 103 torts, Captain Par-
sons, from Port Macquarie, with maize, &c.
August 13. —The barque Ceylon, 253 tons, Captain Beazley,
from the Downs 6th April, with a general cargo.
August 13. —The brig Alfred, 123 tons, Captain Robinson,
from Manila sth April, and Singapore 25th May, with sugar
August 13.—The brig Prince Albert , 170 tons, Captain
Craib, from the Cape of Good Hope 28th, May and Pott
Adelaide 30th July, with wines, fruits &c.
August 14.—The ship Meg Merrilies, Captain Thompson,
from London 2nd May.
August 14.—The schooner Mariner, Captain Ford, from
Port Phillip via Port Albert, with bark and salt.
DEPARTURES.
August B—The8 —The barque Giraffe, Captain Grant, for Laun-
ceston via Newcastle, in ballast.
August 9.—The schooner Wanderer, Captain Burns, for Laun-
ceston, with sundries.
August 10.—The schooner Star of China, Captain Tinley,
for Port Nicholson, with sundries.
August 10.—The brig Calypso, Captain Harrold, for Laun-
ceston, with sundries.
August 13.—The schooner Martha and Elizabeth, Captain
Devlin, for Port Phillip, with sundries.
August 13.—The steamer Sovereign, Captain Cape, for
Moreton Bay, w r ith sundries
3Strtf).
On the 12th instant, at her residence, Castlereagh-street, the
lady of Mr. Thomas Lipscomb, solicitor, of a son.
jWarrtagc.
On the 6th instant, at Jamberoo, by the Rev. M. D. Meares,
A.M., William Fanning, to Oriana, third daughter of the late
G. A. Richardson Esq., M.D.
SRafif).
On the 9th instant, at Wollongong, at the residence of Dr.
O'Brien, J. F. Church, Esq., aged fifty-four, after a long and
painful illness. Captain Church, after frequently visiting these
colonies as the commander of a merchant vessel, was induced
in 1831 to bring from England his amiable family, and to settle
in Sydney as a colonist and merchant, in which capacity, for
his well-know’n integrity and punctuality, he was deservedly
respected and esteemed. From the formation to the dissolu-
tion, he was Surveyor to the Australian Marine, and the Union
Assurance, Companies, and gave the most perfect satisfaction
to both, as well as to the public. He will be long remembered,
and regretted by all who had the pleasure of his acquaintance,
His remains are to he brought to Sydney for interment on
Friday, at the hour of nine in the morning.
a cHai.i.sNas,
TO ENGLAND, IRELAND, SCOTLAND, AND ALL THE WORLD
BESIDE.
WALKER’S PATENT GROATS.
rfIHIS ARTICLE* if tested, will be found to contain more
fl niltrirhpnf tVvon onir cirvvilnv* ~ P iL » T * -\ n
Walker is prepared to prove that two thirds of the quantity of
the above, if made in a proper manner, will be equal in nourish-
ment, and of a thicker substance, than the usual quantity
generally recommended by others in the directions for use.
Another desirable property belonging to Walker’s Patent
Groats is, as regards the great safety for export —not liable to
that change which the English manufacture is, by turning
sour on the Voyage, avoided by the patent mode of preparation,
and greatly aided by the spontaneous growth of the grain
grown in this Country; while free from the artificial culture
which causes so much moisture in the farina of the English
grain, and scarcely ever eradicated or sufficiently prepared.
Enough already is before the public to satisfy them that
Walker’s Earinaceous Food, (for Children and for Persons with
impared digestion,) ought not to be despised, and which for
the future will be packed in Tin Canisters, in order to preserve
its most agreeable flavour. With the usual white label-
sealed and signed Edward Walker—that only being genuine.
Wholesale orders to any extent will be immediately at-
tended to ; any export order exceeding ten gross of either
article, terms, half Cash, and the remainder when the goods
are resold.
Manufactory, Old Botany Road.
S&SSAX.S.
JUST RECEIVED, ex Hindoo, a large assortment oj
Repeal, Temperance, Confirmation, Nelson, and Tunnel
Medals, with Cathedral and others of a very beautiful descrip,
tion, adapted for presents.
The attention of Temperance Societies is especially invited
to five hundred beautiful Temperance Medals, which will be
sold cheap.
Specimens may be seen at Mr. Reading’s Printing Office,
133, King-street East.
©olontal Htterarg Journal,
Weekly miscellany of Useful Information.
UP HE TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION to this Journal
are, Three Shillings per Quarter, in Town ; Country,
Three Shillings and Sixpence; payable, in every case,
in advance.
Terms for Advertisements: —For one inch, and under,
Three Shillings; and One Shilling for every additional inch;
each insertion. Advertisements will be received until Two
o’clock on Wednesday afternoon; but cannot be withdrawn
later than Nine o’clock on Wednesday morning. Adver-
tisements must specify on the face of them the number of
times they are to be inserted, or they will be continued till
countermanded, and charged accordingly.
Parties signifying their intention of becoming Subscribers
to the Colonial Literary Journal, are informed that the first
numbers may be still obtained on application to their respec-
tive Agents, and at the Office.
Agents for tills Journal.
Sydney, Mr. W. Jones, Circulating Library, Brickfield-hilk
Parramatta Mr. Hugh Taylor.
Windsor Mr. Walker.
Bathurst Mr. Tress.
West Maitland Mr. Galloway.
Camden, Campbelltown, Penrith, and
Liverpool Mr. C. Lester.
Gunning Mr. Hawthorne.
