

COLONIAL LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
** NON tua te moveant, SED PUBLICA YOTA. ’
Vol. 11. No. 31.]
SYDNEY, THURSDAY, JANUARY 23, 1845.
[Price 4d.
CONTEMPT OF OTHERS
CENSURABLE AND UNJUST.
It is a maxim which should ever be borne in mind,
that nobody should be despised —except on particular
grounds of demerit. There are, however, many per-
sons, not otherwise devoid of generous sentiment, who
have a habit of speaking comtemptuously or lightly of
almost everybody but themselves ; than which there
is no plainer token of the weakness and infirmity of
our nature.
Imagine a great and good man—one endued with
all the nobler qualities of humanity—such a one is
incapable of the habit of lessening the respect due to
his friends, absent or present, or of treating any fellow-
being with scorn, unless it be for some specific delin-
quency. Such a person will already be too secure of
his own reputation to seek to raise it at the expense of
others. He will see that the condition of all men is
in a great measure accidental, or at least moulded
greatly by circumstances, and will not despise any one
on account of his mere station in the general system,
but, on the contrary, will award him respect in pro-
portion to his good conduct in that place, whatever it
may be. Such.a man, also, will have too much re-
spect for himself, to Use language at one time which
he would be ashamed tluown at another, or to observe
of a person in his absence what he would be unwilling
to repeat in his presence.
All, however, it must be confessed, are more or less
remote from the greatness and goodness of this ideal
character, for nearly all are alike given to speaking
slightingly of each other, which is more especially
owing to the selfishness and thoughtlessness of our
natural emotions. The former gives us such an in-
tense appreciation of ourselves, and the rank we hold
in society, that we speak and think as if every person
and every clas's beneath us were too mean to be
entitled to the least respect; we look upon them as a
degraded caste, whose very existence must only be
acknowledged indirectly, as a thing we only see at a
distance, without ever coming into contact with it.
Thoughtlessness, again, is evinced by the want of a.
proper consideration of the noble destiny which all
partake of in common with ourselves, both in respect
to the grand moral ends of this life, and the more
sublime prospect of the future ; for if this were borne
in mind, we would hardly think meanly of any one,
except, as before remarked, cn account of some spe-
cific worthlessness. On any other ground, contempt
of others is most culpable and unjust. What are
differences of tongue, of rank, of personal abilities, oi
external manners—what are all these distinctions
compared to the common destiny which awaits us all
without distinction at the close of this brief life ? I?e
who reflects on these things will not think lightly of
another, arid moreover may be assured that it is not
by proclaiming his contempt for others that a man
can reasonably expect to attain to a situation of any
comfort or felicity.
It will readily be allowed that all ranks of men are
in reality dependent on each other, and that each,
filling its proper place, is entitled to its proportion of
regard from the rest. Experience, indeed, shews us
that the highest may occasionally have to receive a
favour from the lowest, and this is an additional reason
why ive should never treat any person beneath us
with disrespect, as, otherwise, with what grace could
such a favour in the hour of need be accepted.
The young should be taught the great importance
of learning to acquire a power of judging correctly
and definitely. They should learn to estimate every
thing relatively, and not be prevented from allow-
ing merit, even when it exists in the smallest quan-
tities, by its being mingled w T ith perhaps a larger pro-
portion of less w r orthy qualities. Rather should we
be inclined to judge with tenderness both of persons
and things, and to allow that the best sentiments may
exist in and be displayed by even those characters
whom, on ordinary principles, we may be most in-
clined to despise.
It should be the objeet of every one to cultivate
that true magnanimity, or elevation of mind, which
places us above all unworthy or degrading feelings; or
if we possess not this condition of mind, we ought to
place models of it before us, and only act and feel as
we may suppose such persons would act and feel
under similar circumstances. It is only, in the mag-
nanimous in any rank of life that there is real good-
ness ; for unless the lower passions have been trampled
down by this superior sentiment, there can be no
clear stage for the better feelings to act upon. Above
| all things, magnanimity will place us above the apti-
: tude to sneer at every person whom we think a little
! less informed, less fortunate, or less gifted with the
world’s honour than ourselves, and, also, and to the
same degree, above all liability to look with the sickly
eye of envy at those who we think somewhat better
off than ourselves ; for the invidious feeling which the
inferior is apt to cherish towards the superior order is
a feeling exactly corresponding in strength to the
contempt which the superior is so apt to entertain for
the inferior. Unavoidable as both sentiments may be
in a great measure, they are decidedly to be considered
as among the most unworthy that beset our nature,


and those which we are most called upon to contend
against. To repine at the good of another is repug-
nant alike to human philosophy, and to Christian
charity. It deprives us of that satisfaction Avhicli all
of us are designed to have, each in his own temporary
station, and places us virtually in a state of rebellion
against the ordinances of the divine will. In general,
no man who hopes to obtain any good by his own
deservings, or feels within himself the power which
will in time enable him to obtain it, will degrade him-
self by the most transient emotion of this passion. It
is, however, to a limited number, that the power is
thus given of resisting such emotions, and the only
effectual guard against either contempt for our in-
feriors, or envy for our superiors, is that greatness of
soul we have already alluded to.
The magnanimous person will not take a paltry
revenge, either in speech or deed, for a trivial invasion
of his rights of any kind : he has too much respect for
himself to do so. His elevation above low feelings
enables him to take a benevolent and philanthropic
view of human nature, to make allowances for what
is deficient in the conduct of some, and to award due
praise for what is meritorious in others, and nowhere
to permit a trivial personal interest, or a jot of his
own self-love, to colour his estimate of a fellow crea-
ture, whether placed above or beneath him. By this
means he preserves his own purity of character, and
ensures a far more certain return of honour and
respect in the long run, than he could obtain by the
most constant and successful habit of detracting from
the merit of his superiors, or by affecting a puerile
and unworthy contempt of those whom providence
may have placed in an inferior station.
THE BRICKLAYER.
Bricklaying is the art of cementing bricks, by lime or some
other cement, so as to form one body ; hence its use and im-
portance in building walls, houses, &c. In London this busi-
ness includes tiling, walling, chimney work, and paving with
bricks and tiles. Tilers and bricklayers were incorporated,
10th of Elizabeth, under the name of master and wardens of
the society of freemen of the mystery and art of tilers and
bricklayers. In the country, plasterers’ work is always joined
to the business of a bricklayer, and not unfrequently, stone-
masons’ work also.
Bricklaying is of great antiquity, for we read of it very
early in the Mosaic history.
Structures of brick, in England, as we now see them, are
by no means of so old a date as may probably be supposed.
Bricks, indeed, were much used by the Romans, though of a
different size and shape to those of our own time. Instances
of them may be particularly seen in the walls of Old Verulam,
in the castle at Colchester, and in different parts of the Abbey
Church at St. Alban’s, which was built in the Saxon times,
out of the ruins of the Roman city.
BricJcs appear to have been again introduced in one or two
instances as early as the reign of Richard the Second, though
few buildings of consequence were erected with them before
the reign of Henry the Sixth. Some of the oldest and best
specimens now remaining, may be found in the remains of
Hurstmonceaux castle, in Sussex, and the gate of the Rye-
house in Hertfordshire, both built very early in the reign of
Henry the Sixth; the Lollards tower at Lambeth Palace,
built in 1454; Dandelion gateway, of the time of Henry the
Seventh; and the old part of Hampton Court, built in 1514
by Cardinal Wolsey.
The materials made use of by Bricklayers are bricks, tiles,
mortar, laths, nails, and tilepins.
Their tools are a brick-trowel to take up and spread the
mortar; a brick-axe, to cut the bricks to the proper shape
and size : a saw is also occasionally wanted, and a stone to
rub the bricks smooth when great exactness is required. A
square is always wanted to lay the bed or foundation of any
wall or building; a bevel, with which the under-side-of the
bricks are cut to a required angle; a piece of timber, called a
banker: this is about six feet long, and laid on two other
piers of timber, three feet high from the floor on which they
stand, and on this they cut the bricks. Line-pins and a line,
are used to lay the courses or rows of bricks by : a plumb rule,
by which they carry their work upright. A level is wanted
to conduct the building exactly horizontal; a small square to
set off right angles: a ten feet rod to take dimensions, and a
jointer, or long flat lath, about three inches wide, which is
held by two men while another draws the long joints; a
rammer, to render the foundation firm, by beating or ramming ;
a crowe, pick-axe, and shovel, with which they dig through
and clear away any obstacles that may oppose their progress.
Bricklayers are supplied with bricks and mortar, by a man
they call a labourer, who is also employed in making the
mortar from lime. The labourer brings the mortar and the
bricks in a machine called a hod, which he carries on his
shoulder. Before he puts the mortar into the hod, he throws
over every part of the inner surface, fine dry sand, to prevent
it from sticking to the wood.
A Bricklayer and his labourer will lay in a single day about
a thousand bricks, in what is called whole and solid work,
when the wall is either a brick and a half or two bricks thick;
and since a cubic yard contains 460 bricks, he will lay above
two cubic yards in a day.
Paving-tiles are a long flat kind of brick used for laying
the floors of dairies, cheese-houses, &c. Their size is about
nine inches long, four and a half broad, and one and a half
thick ; but some are made nine inches square.
The different sorts of tiles for covering houses, are pantiles,
which are 13 inches long, 8 inches broad, and about half an
inch thick; their transverse section somewhat resembles tbs
letter tn , being two portions of cylindric surfaces on both sides;
plain tiles, which are about 9 inches long, and about 5 inches
broad. In different parts of the country, slate is used instead
of tiles. In and about London, either Welch or Westmore-
land slate is used. In the formation of the pan-tile and the
plain-tile a knob is made to project from the under surface of
the upper end, which serves to hang it on the lath. Laths for
tiling are about three-fourths of an inch thick, and one and a
quarter inch broad, and are most commonly made of deal.
The other sorts of tiles are, hip-tiles, and ridge or crest tiles.
Bricklayers compute new work, such as the w 7 alls of houses,
&c. by the rod of 16£ feet, and the price charged includes the
putting up and use of scaffolding; but the clearing out and
carrying away the rubbish, is an extra charge. In digging
and steening wells, the work is charged at a certain price per
foot, and the price is higher for each foot according a 3 the
depth is greater.
The emptying and carrying away soil that is to be removed
for making foundations of vaults is charged by the ton: 18
cubic feet of soil is reckoned to weigh a ton.
The method of making mortar will be shewn in the article
entitled the Stone-mason.
Change of the Times. —An old farmer who lives at
Burghelere, under the North Hampshire Hills, observed to
me last year, when we were talking about the corruption and
degeneracy of the times, that it was the fine words, and the
flattery of men ta the farmers’ wives, that had done all the
mischief; “ for,” said he, “ when ’twas dame and porridge,
’twas real good times ; when ’twas mistress and broth , 'twas
worse a great deal; but when it came to be ma'am and soup.
’twas very bad.”— Cobbcti.


ENOUGH!
[From “ Godwin’s Facts and Fancies,” 1844.]
Enough 1 How wide a word ! To one, how little ;
-—to another, how large ; its signification changes
with every moon ; its realization becomes more diffi-
cult with every step made, apparently, in advance
towards it.
“ A little will content me,” Ardens had said ten
years before : u I want simply enough. Let me own
hut a score of acres, and I shall have no desire un-
gratified.” The score is now a hundred, and still
Ardens, with reproach and complaint, asks, simply,
for enough ; as yet he has not found it. With every
gain came self-created wants ; with every conquest,
greater aspirings. As in the natural world, by ascen-
ding a mountain, the horizon expands and becomes
more distant, so in the artificial world, the bounds of
man’s wants and wishes are enlarged by the very
acquirements of that which was previously the limit.
“If thou wouldst make Pythocles truly rich,”
wrote Epicurus to Idomeneus, “ thou must not amplify
his wealth, but lessen his desires ;” —a sentence which
should be written in letters ol gold, on tables of
marble, and inculcated ever : for, as the same philo-
sopher elsewhere writes, “ to many, the possession
of riches is not the end, but the change of their misery.”
Certain it is, that it is not possessing little, but
requiring much, that makes a poor man. He, for
example, who gainingeight, can live happily on seven,
is surely a richer man than he, who owning eighty,
has learnt to think a hundred insufficient for his
necessities. Let us, therefore, so school ourselves,
that by wanting little of Fortune, we may be inde-
pendent of her caprices, and careless of her smiles :
that we make not our happiness to depend on the
possession of superfluities, but rest contented with
just what is.
And yet would we not become apathetic, or remove
motive for high desires, —for in this schooling we set
up an object for attainment, the enough of which is as
distant from the worldly mind, as earth’s high places
from unaided poverty. We mean, the purification of
the mind, and the possession of wisdom. All feel
anxious, even if they do not feel able, to attain to
something better—something beyond—
— “ The high-born soul
Disdains to rest her heaven-aspiring wing
Beneath its native quarry.”
We endeavour to ascend, and ascend in the endeavour.
Let wisdom, then, become our striving point. Let the
mind’s advance, not the body’s welfare, be the object
eared for, whereto we need never say, Enough !
“ Eor ’tis the mind that makes the body rich :
And as the sun breaks through the darkest clouds,
So honour peereth in the meanest habit.”
And speaking thus, we mean not learning, (intimate 1
communion with the mighty dead), —we mean not
simply knowledge (acquaintance with all the mysteries
©f science, or the events of past times), but wisdom
m its highest sense, and which, although it should
result from these, is yet quite different, and not in-
compatible with the greatest book-ignorance.
Wisdom ! who giveth riches to her follower when
she sheweth them to be superfluous ; who elevated
her disciple by proving the cares of dominion and the
mutability of powers; and placeth him far above
anxiety for the present, and deadeneth the sting of
sorrow, by pointing to a radiant and enduring home,
where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt.”
History.
ANCIENT HISTORY: SECTION XXVIII.
INCREASE OF THE POPULAR POWER.
]. The scale of the people was daily acquiring weight, at the
| expense of that of the highest order. Two barriers, however,
still separated the patricians and plebeians; the one, a law
which prevented their intermarriage, and the other, the con-
stitutional limitation of all the higher offices to the order of
the patricians. It was now only necessary to remove these
restraints, to bring the patricians and plebeians on a looting
of perfect equality. The first, after a long but fruitless con-
test, was at length agreed to by the senate; and this con-
cession had its usual effect of stimulating the people to in-
flexible perseverance in their struggle for the latter. On an
emergence of war, the customary device was practised, of
refusing to enter the rolls, unless upon the immediate enact-
ment of a law, which should admit their capacity of holding
all the offices of the republic. The senate sought a palliative,
by the creation of six military tribunes in lieu of the consuls,
three of whom should be patricians, and three plebeians.
This measure satisfied the people for a time: the consuls,
however, were soon restored.
2. The disorders of the republic, and frequent wars, had in-
terrupted the regular survey or census of the citizens, for a
great many years. This was remedied by the creetion of a
new magistracy. Two officers, under the title of Censors,
were appointed, (437 b. c.) whose duty was not only to make
the census every five years, but to inspect the morals and regu-
late the duties of all the citizens ; in virtue of this power they
kept in dependence both the senate and people. The cen-
sorship, from these extensive powers, was accounted the mos t
honourable office of the commonwealth, and was exercised, in
the latter times of the republic, only by consular persons, and
afterwards annexed to the supreme function of the emperors,
3. The dissensions between the orders continued with little
variation either in their causes or effects. The people gene-
rally, as the last resource, refused to enrol themselves, till
overawed by the supreme authority of a dictator. To obviate
the frequent necessity of this measure, which enforced at best
an unwilling and compelled obedience, the senate had re-
course to a wise expedient; this was to give a regular pay to
the troops. To defray this expense, a moderate tax was im-
posed in proportion to the fortunes of the citizens. From this
period the Roman system of war assumed a new aspect. The
senate always found soldiers at command; the army was under
its control; the enterprises of the republic were more exten-
sive, and its successes more signal and important. Veii, tha
proud rival of Rome, and its equal in extent and population,
was taken by Camillus, after a siege of ten years, a. u. c. 359.
b. c. 394. The art of war was improved, as it now became a
profession, instead of an occasional occupation. The Romans
were, from this circumstance, an overmatch for all their
neighbours. Their dominion, hitherto confined to the terri-
tory of a few miles, was now rapidly extended. It was im-
possible but the detached states of Italy must have given way
before a people always in arms, and who, by a perseverance
alike resolute and judicious, were equal to every attempt in
which they engaged.
4. The taking of Veii was succeeded by a war with tha
Gauls. This formidable people, a branch of the great nation
of the Celtae, had opened to themselves a passage through the
Alps at four different periods, and had been at this time
established in the country between those mountains and the
Appenines, for about 200 years. Under the command of
Brennus, they laid siege to the Etruscan Clusium; and this
people, of no warlike turn themselves, solicited the aid of tha
Romans. The circumstances recorded of this war with the


Gauls throw over it a cloud of fable and romance. The for-
midable power of Rome is said to have been in a single cam-
paign so utterly exhausted, that the Gauls entered the city
without resistance, and burnt it to the ground, 38 5 b. c.
Though thus overpowered, the Romans, in a single engage-
ment, retrieve all their losses, and in one day’s time there is
not a Gaul left remaining within the Roman territory.
To the burning of the city by the Gauls, the Roman writers
attribute the loss of all the records and monuments of their
earlyfhistory.
5. It is singular, that most of the Roman revolutions should
have owed their origin to women. From this cause we have
seen spring the abolition of the regal office and the decem-
virate. From this cause arose the change of the constitution,
by which the plebeians became capable of holding the highest
offices of the commonwealth. The younger daughter of Fabius
Ambustus, married to a plebeian, envious of the honours of
her elder sister, the wife of a patrician, stimulated her father
to rouse the lower order to a resolute purpose of asserting
their equal right with the patricians to all the offices and
dignities of the state. After much turbulence and contest, the
final issue was the admission of the plebeians, first to the con-
sulate, and afterwards to the censorship, the prastorship, and
priesthood (a. u. c. 454, and b. c. 300) ; a change beneficial
in the main, as consolidating the strength of the republic, and
cutting off the principal source of intestine disorder. The
factions of the state had hitherto confined the growth of its
power, its splendour, and prosperity ; for no state can at once
be prosperous and anarchical. We shall now mark the rapid
elevation of the Roman name and empire.
SECTION XXIX.—CONQUEST OF ITALY BY THE ROMANS.
1. The war with the Samnites now began, and was of long
continuance; but its successful termination was speedily fol-
lowed by fthe reduction of all the states of Italy. In the
course of this important war, the Tarentines, the allies of the
Samnites, sought the aid of Pyrrhus, king of Epirus, one of
the greatest generals of his age. Pyrrhus landed in Italy
with 30,000 men, and a train of elephants, 280 b. c. He was
at first successful; the elephants in his army were a novel
sight to the Romans, and gave him a great advantage, but no
longer than until a short experience reconciled the Romans to
ibis new mode of war ; and every campaign proved more and
more unsuccessful. Sensible at length of the difficulties of
his enterprise, and dreading a fatal issue, he embraced an in-
vitation from the Sicilians to aid them in a war with Carthage.
On this pretext, which at least was not dishonourable,
Pyrrhus withdrew his troops from Italy. In this interval the
Romans reduced the Samnites, the Tarentines, and the other
allied states, to extremity. Pyrrhus returned after an absence
of two years, and made a last effort near Beneventum. He
was totally defeated, lost 26,000 men, and, abandoning at
once all farther views to Italy, returned with precipitation to
his own dominions, 274 b. c. The hostile states submitted to
the victorious power; and Rome, 480 years from the foun-
dation of the city, was now mistress of all Italy.
2. The policy observed by the Romans, with respect to the
conquered nations, was wise and judicious. They removed to
Rome all the leading men of the principal conquered cities,
admitting these into the ancient urban and rustic tribes, and
thus soothing the pride of the vanquished, by giving them an
apparent share in their own domestic government; while, in
arranging the constitution of the cities, they filled their magis-
tracies with illustrious Romans, whose abilities and influence
were fitted to maintain those new provinces in allegiance to
the Roman government.
3. Sicily had long been considered as the granary of Italy.
The Carthaginians at this time possessed very considerable
settlements in the island, and were ambitious of acquiring its
entire dominion. An obvious policy led the Romans to dis-
pute with them this important acquisition, and gave rise to
the Punic wars. This leads, by a natural connexion, to a short
view of the history of Carthage and of Sicily.
BLANCHE ROSE.
A TALE OF THE TWELFTH CENTERY.
The bells of Toulouse were chiming for primes.
The spiies, steeples, and turrets fluttered with pennons
and banners, and clustered with caps and bonnets like
swarming bees. The main street was lined by the
Burgher guard, and crowded with citizens, strangers,
troubadours, and minstrels, above whose motley show
the windows and galleries were hung with fine w T hite
linen and arras, and filled with scarlet gowms, furred
tabards, and all the riches, splendour, and beauty of
“ Bel Languedoc .” A deep stillness reigned in the
crowd, and all eyes were turned towards the east gate,
where a triumphal arch crowned with laurel, palm,
and the white cross of Toulouse, stood as high as the
bartizan of the city port.
“ Santa Madre ! what jour de fete is this ?” said an
old pilgrim, as he pushed through the men-at-arms
at the barrier.
“ In the name of St. Jacques de Toulouse where
did you come from V' replied one of the sergeants,
glancing at his cockle-shell.
“ That is no point of your charge,” replied the
stranger ; “ but I would know what saint you are
going to celebrate.”
“ Truly we call him not saint as yet,” replied the
sergeant; “ though I doubt not he is as good as St.
Dennis, or St. George, or any other St. Chevalier in
the calendar ; but in respect to the canonization, he
is yet only Raymond de Toulouse —‘ La Fleur de
Chevaliere— 1 la lame de France our young prince
that shall return to-day, with the glory of heaven
and earth, from the holy croisade.”
The pilgrim crossed himself, and while he was yet
speaking with the guard, the sound of cymbals,
kettle-drums, and a “ corps d’harmonie” came faintly
through the still sunshine.
“On viens /” exclaimed the sergeant; and the bill-
men, eagerly clearing the passage, closed up their
array, and stood silent under their arms.
The music advanced slowly, till the deep knell of
an eastern march could be distinguished, and the
thick heavy tramp of horses upon the road ; every eye
fixed upon the gate, as the music approached, till
suddenly the clattering hoofs and rolling drums
echoed in the deep arch, and the dark mailed horse-
men and forest of lances came through into the sun-
shine. The long black line of men-at-arms poured
slowly down the street, till the bright tabards of the
heralds appeared at the gate, followed by the great
banner of Toulouse, and all the peers and paladins
of the array.
In the midst of his knights, mounted upon a
blanche Arab, and glistening in the white battle-habit
of the cross, the Earl rode before his banner, sur-
rounded by his officers, and followed by all the
chivalry of Languedoc and Provence. His pale noble
countenance was clear and serene as the sun that
shone upon him, and his long black hair fell like
waves of raven silk from the jewelled helmet and
glittering lambroquin, which shook like a glory about
his armed head. A rending shout, “ Vive , Vive,
vive le Paladin del croix went up like thunder from
the crowd ; and the waving of bonnets, scarfs, and
glaives, fluttered and flashed, and glistened down the
street before the banner, like the tossing and glim-
mering of flowers before the breeze. By the side oi
the earl, rode his sworn brother in arms the


beautiful and gallant Auguste de Valence, son to j
King Remi of Provence—called “ La Fleur de
France ,” “ Le Bel du A/onie,”and the second knight ,
of all the Christian chivalry ; but the eyes of the j
people past over him as he rode beside the young j
prince, who, in the opinion of the troubadours, came j
nearer the beau-ideal of chivalry, —“ Sir Galahad ,
du Sangraal ,” than any other knight who had ever j
lived. All the way as he came, garlands, and crowns, j
and showering flowers rained upon his helmet and j
housings ; and the people wept, and knelt and blessed
him, and held up their children to see his face, and j
cry “ Vive la Gloire de France .” The young prince
became white as his surcoat, and bowed his glorious
head to the pall on hishorse’s mane. “ Soli Deo gloria,"
said he, “ Soli Deo Gloria, et non nobis Domine.”
It was long before the court passed down the street,
but at length the earl entered the Grande Place, and
as he passed under a large house near the cross, looked ,
suddenly up to the galleries. That house alone in :
the square was silent and deserted, the silk curtains j
were drawn close in the windows, and the heavy
galleries empty and desolate. The prince turned |
suddenly and spoke to the grand almoner, and the j
colour came into the face of the old man, but what
he answered could not be heard in the crowd.
In a few moments they reached the gate of the I
episcopal palace, and the long glittering lambroquins j
and tall lances poured through into the court till the j
gate closed, and the black column of men-at-arms j
filed past towards the castle. But the crowd still j
remained before the palace, and in a short time a i
sumptuous cavalcade of the city procession came j
through to the gate, and the stately companies of j
peers, knights, and ladies, began to arrive for the
banquet prepared to give welcome to their prince.
All the noon and till the sun grew low, the clang-
our of the wild eastern music came from the portals,
and the gales-stairs, and galleries were crowded with
valets, pages, pursuivants, and men-at-arms ; but as
the evening came, and the twilight began to fall, the
quiet of closing day succeeded to the hurry of the
noon, and only a bright page, or an over-wassailed
trooper, was seen here and there flitting through the
dim courts, or elbowing the narrow' street, as if it was
too narrow for a victorious crusader, who had ridden
upon the plains of Zebulon and Naphthali.
It was near dark ; the Chateau was dim and still,
and the quiet of feudal solitude had succeeded to the
hurry and glitter of the baronial pageant and military
parade. At times a sudden roar of songs and voices
came from the ward-rooms, but only one still watch-
light shone upon the moat, and already the pages
"were seeking their couches, and the seneschal was
putting off his furred gown within his oloset ; for as
yet the great had not fallen into those extravagant
late hours w'hich made them invisible to their poor
suitors at eight o'clock before noon.
In the midst of this quiet, a tall figure wrapped in
a dark mantle came out from the west postern, and
.uirned hastily towards the Grande Place. The full
moon was rising over the dim houses as he entered the
square ; and as he looked up to her bright face, it
discovered the pale noble countenance of Raymond
de Toulouse.. He passed hastily to the house, w'hich
he had noticed at his entry, and stopping at a small
port under the garden turret, unclosed the door, and
passed into a little wilderness of cypresses and olives,
He walked forward through the dim alleys, like one
well acquainted with their windings, till he came to
a vast plane-tree, which overshadowed a little green
seat beside the Garonne.
A white female figure sat upon the turf, her long
black hair loose upon her neck, and her silk gown
glistening on the grass like a continuation of the
moonlight which glimmered on the water, and at
which she gazed with such fixedness that the knight
was at her side before she heard his step.
“Blanche Rose!” said he, in a still gentle voice ;
she started and drew a long quivering breath, but as
she looked in his face, she sprung from the ground, —
“My own very dear prince and brother ! she ex-
claimed, and fell upon his bosom, and wept without
a word.
The prince held her in his arms and bent over her
till her emotion subsided into the low tremulous sobs
of an infant’s tears. Several times the earl strove to
speak ; but his voice failed at that sad trembling breath
that fluttered upon his bosom.
“ Dear Blanche,” said he, at last, “ what is this ?
—they would not tell me—but you will tell me.
The lady started and shuddered, and her face sunk
closer on his mantle.
The tears came to the eyes of the young knight
“ My ow n dear Orpheline Ladye —the child of my
foster-mother —you do not fear to speak to me ! to
your brother ? look up on the face that used to rest on
the same bosom —sleep in the same cradle and this
the hand—that w'as once the little helpless hand that
clung to the same breast with yours now, to Him
be the glory ! the battle arm that holds the thunder
and the lightning against all that should do ill to my
dear sister.”
Blanche burst afresh into sobs, and would have
sunk out of his arms but for his strong hand ; but
he supported her in silence, till at last her tears
j ceased, and she leaned still and breathless, and deathly
heavy on his arm. Raymond looked upon her
bright lovely head that lay motionless upon his cloak,
i and smoothed the raven locks from her pale brow.
Alas!” said he gently, “ where is your own white
\ flower that used to be so bright in these dark waves ?
“ La-Blanche-Rose” trembled like the leaves that
j quivered in the moonlight— “ Fallen—gone—withered
! in the dust /” she murmured faintly.
The earl’s hand shook, but he did not speak, and
i for a long time they stood without a word.
Blanche rose up from his arm, and swept back the
i hair from her death-pale face. “ Raymond!” said
| she, “ I will speak to you as a knight’s daughter
| should speak to a knight’s son. —I was —your very
I dear true sister. lam ” —her voice choked and strug-
i gled—“no more your sister —no more my fathers
J daughter—a poor—lost—fallen maiden ! I was the
last of his race that was the father of kings. I shall
be the first—the mother of one — who will never have
a father /” She sunk down upon the seat and buried
| her face in the grass.
i Raymond stood silent and fixed, and held her hand
| —but it did not move again, and lay cold and still,
; and heavy as the dead clay. My dear sister ! said
I he at last, “ what, who has done you wrong V*
Blanche did not speak nor lift her face, but drew
| away her hand, and immediately it returned with
i something bright to the moonshine ; as Raymond
. 1 stooped it flew open, and he saw the glorious beautiful
j features of Auguste de Valence,
■ I “La Bel du Monde fhe exclaimed.


Blanche did not move nor answer, and his eyes
lested fixed on the miniature, as it lay open in her
passive hand.
“ What has he done ?" said the earl, in the deep
calm terrible voice with which he used to speak in
battle.
Her voice spoke faintly from the ground ; “He
has shed the rose from my brow that shall never bloom
again !”
Raymond fell on the ground, his long hair spread
jn the dust, and his bright noble terrible battle-front
bowed like a child. The white fingers of the maiden
closed convulsively upon the gold, and the bright
robe trembled on her slender form, like the lights
upon the stream.
Raymond rose up ; his lips were white as death,
but his eyes calm and steady; and he stooped and
took her passive hand, and kissed her cold lips.—
“Ladye! my very dear love and sister !” said he,
“ it is gone ! it is passed away ! —to-morrow your
white flow r er shall bloom on your brow, clear and
stainless as ever it shone in the sun !”
Blanche started and glanced wildly up ; but the
sudden light of her eyes fell, and she clasped her
hands on her face, “He is married to another !”
said she.
Raymond grasped her hands. “ Look up !” said
he ; “ look on the fair moon ; she is rising as you and
I have seen her rise when we w’ere happy, careless
infants on this bank. When she rises again, you
shall look upon her, clear, and bright, and spotless as
her face that smiles upon you !”
Blanche looked long, and fixed, and calm upon
him, and dropped her eyes, and shook her head.—
“The grave—the fire that washes out all spot—the
mercy of God shall take away my stain, but never
man on earth !”
The earl turned away and held her hand, and the
tears ran down his face. At last he loosed his surcoat,
and undid the white cross from his neck. “ I took it
at the holy shrine,” said he, “ at His foot where all
sins shall be forgiven; it has brought me through
battle, and tempest, and the black plague—by His
might it shall bring you through peril worse than
death. Take it; pray for me ; and when we meet
again you shall be the bright, beautiful, glorious
lady of the world that ever you were in life !”
He tied the cord on her neck, and laid the pearl
in her hand, and long spoke and strove to console her,
but she could not be comforted, and sat still and
silent upon the grass; her hands dropped in the cold
dew, and her eyes fixed blank and dim upon the
moonlight that floated in the water.
Raymond stood and gazed upon her till his face
grew white as hers ; but suddenly the light came to
his eyes, he laid his hand upon the cross of his sword
—■-** By His might and His hope, I hold the spell of
your fate !” said he ; “to-morrow it shall be broken !”
* * % * * *
The gray daw T n was breaking in the forest of Maris,
and the dim cold light began to glisten upon the pale
flowers and the dewy leaves of the wood-sorrel and
colt’s-foot which clustered about the feet of the old
oaks. No sound came through the still thickets but
the chime from the distant convent, and the light
trip of the buck pricking among the leaves; even at
that quiet hour he started at the mass-bell, suddenly
topped his cropping lips from the grass, and bent his
ear, and held up his nose in the wind ; but he re-
turned to his browsing, and wavered through thf
w ood, till he came to the brink of a small deep glade ;
he stopped suddenly, and pricked his ear, and glancei
his bright eye into the hollow, and for a moment
stood and felt the wind, but in the next his white
single went over the long fern like a flash of light,
and he vanished into the deep thicket. For an
instant his short bound came from the moss, but
nothing stirred nor appeared where he had looked,
and the light began to brighten and the birds to sing,
but all was still and solitary.
The red rose of the morning began to appear through
the trees, and the white mist went slowly up from the
glade, and under an oak leaned a tall dark man, his
iarms folded, his back to the tree, and his brown cap
and deep mantle, scarce distinguishable, from the
knotted and fantastic shapes of the old trunks that
stood about him.
As he leaned and gazed upon the path, a quick
i step rustled on the leaves, and suddenly the light noble
| figure of the Auguste de Valence came out upon the
i glade. For a moment he stopped and glanced round.
The man rose from the tree, and dropped his cloak,
and came to the green.— Raymond de Toulouse.
Auguste cast his mantle, and put off his glove, and
they drew their swords and confronted each other
j without a w r ord. Fora moment they stood upon their
| guard, point to point, eye to eye, foot to foot, and
neither gave, hit nor foin ; but in the next Auguste
made a feint and plunge that might have foiled the
best hand in France, but the blade glanced like a
reed from the sword of Raymond, and for several
moments the glade echoed to the quick clash and the
heavy fearful trample of the mortal assault. But it
might have seemed only a skilful “ passage of arms,”
neither being able to foil the hand of his opponent,
till Auguste made the foin that he was never known
to fail, and the sword went through the kirtle of his
antagonist, close beneath his arm. The point glittered
at his back, and the blood gushed down his green
j hose, but he did not fall nor stagger, nor drop his
hand ; and they closed, and clashed, and showered
blows, till the blood ran from every limb, and breath-
less and exhausted they dropped their points, and
stood apart to breathe. For an instant they wiped
their brows and drew their breath, and undid theii
kirtles to the wind ; and Auguste sat down upon a
molehill, and the earl leaned to a tree, and each
glanced at times to the other, till suddenly they
started to the green, and renewed the battle with the
same mortal determination. The sun was rising as
they struck the first strokes; and whether it shone in
I the eyes of Auguste, or that the earl had the better,
I he made a sudden feint, and in the next moment the
j hilt of his sword was against the breast of his anta-
| gonist, and the blade a red half ell beyond his back.
I De Valence sprung like a stricken hart, and fell
I upon the turf without a word ; the blood gushed out
from his mouth and breast, and in a moment his eyes
began to change, and his lips became blue and cold.
Raymond threw himself upon his knees by his side,
and clasped his hand, and raised his head, and strove
! to staunch the blood, and gazed wildly upon his closing
| eyes —“ God give mercy and grace !” he cried, “ that
j / should do this !”
! Auguste opened his eyes and grasped his hand—
“ True and noble friend,” said he, “ you w r ere ever
kind and faithful to me in our lives, and this that you
! have now done is the best and truest deed of all.-—1


thank God—l bless you—pray for me—forgive me—
but oh, she never can !” and he turned his face to
the earth.
The earl’s tears dropped fast upon his cold brow,
and he held his hand without speaking, as his breath
came in short painful sobs, and the cold death-dew
rose upon his forehead ; he gave a sudden shiver, and
his hand caught, upon the hand of his friend—“ Say
a prayer,” said he ; “ bid God sain ; and let her pray
for me when lam gone !”
Raymond cast up a sudden look—“ Holy saints !
—and no priest ! —none to say him shrift !”
The dying knight pressed his hand — u Hold up !
your cross,” said he, “ and let me look upon it till I
pass away. If I had but a cup of water !”
Raymond glanced eagerly round the glade ; a little
blue streamlet fell through the grass upon a hollow of
the mossy rock, and hastening to the spot, he tilled
his bonnet at the well, and hurried back to the dying
man. The eyes of Auguste had closed, but when
the water came to his lips he opened them and looked
up ; a faint light came to his cheek ; and he raised
himself on the arm of his once brother.
“ I will confess my shrift to you, my true bro-
ther,” said he, “ and you shall tell the priest, and
pray for me, and there will be mercy.”
The earl bathed his face, and held him in his arms,
and lifted the cross before him ; and the knight
clasped his dying hands on his, and confessed to him,
as if he had been a monk in holy quire. His strength
ebbed away with his last words, and he sunk heavy
and breathless upon the breast of Raymond. The
knight dipped his hand in the water, and signed his
brow, and put the cross in his cold fingers —“ God
be merciful to you and forgive you,” said he, “ and
speak that word that I dare not speak, and that none
is here to speak in his name i”
The hand of the dying knight closed upon the
rood : his eyes fell, and one sharp shiver, and he
stretched out, cold and still, and gone for ever.
The earl gazed on his void face, and held his hand
till it grew stiff and cold, and the eyes slowly un-
closed and fixed in the death-glare. Raymond
shuddered, and clasped his hands, and laid his head
upon the turf, and the cross upon his breast, and
spread his mantle over him, and knelt, and wept, and
prayed beside him. At last he rose, and dried his
sword on his sleeve, and put his bonnet on his head,
and set his horn to his lips, and blew- the mort. In a
few moments a little page came lightly through the
trees with his white Arab ; and, as he led up the
horse, looked upon the cloak, and trembled and
turned pale.
“ Sit beside him,” said the earl, “ and watch that
no beast nor bird come to do him wrong ; and I will
ride to the town, and he shall be buried as men should
bury a king’s son.
The sun was set, and the tw'ilight was almost gone;
all Toulouse was in motion ; the great bell of the
catnedral tolled its heavy knell over the town : and
the streets were crowded with a tide of people hurry-
ing towards the main rue. All the way from the
chateau to the great church was kept by men-at-arms,
and a constant wavering stir went among the tall
lances, and an eager murmur of voices, interrupted
only by the fearful toll of the bell that struck its
death-knell at slow' intervals.
Gramercy ! what is this, that the great bell
tolls!” exclaimed an old peasant to his merchant as
he pushed through the crowd ; “I never heard that
knell but for the death of our earl.”
“ Then shall you well hear it to-day,” replied the
citizen ; “ for though he is not, as you shall say, dead
in his body, he is dead in his glory and knight’s
fame.”
u Saint Mary! of what speak you?”-said the
granger.
“ Know you La Rose Blanche ?" asked the mer-
chant.
“ Peine de ma vie," exclaimed the old man, “ do
I know the moon, and the bright star when she rises
at vespers ?”
“ Then shall you not marvel that the earl had the
greatest love for her that ever knight had for a lady,”
said the burgher.
“Nay, truly,” replied the peasant; tl but I make
great marvel to hear a bell toll, when all the chimes
in Toulouse should be ringing merry !”
“ You shall not make the lark sing at your holi-
day,” replied the merchant, “ nor a maiden’s Jove
come for your harping. This, that was the brightest
that ever the sun looked on, minded a fair crow r n and
broad lordship no more than you should value a cow-
slip fee in fairy-land ; and likely for that they had
been foster-children together, she thought of Earl
Raymond but as a maiden may of her true brother,
and would not be his lady though he had been king
of France ; at the least she said so. The count was
near out of his mind, as all men know ; but that
which men knew not —alas, that it should be to say
—on the evening that he was to sail for the Holy
Land, being alone with her to take his leave, fell
such unknightly outrage as never prince did to a lady,
unless it was Don Rodrique to count Palayo’s
daughter. The sweet gentle maiden never spoke
charge nor word against him, but ever she was pale,
and heavy, and broken of heart, and none knew why,
till it could no longer be hid, and her shame flew fast
and far as ever w r ent the renown of the ‘ Blmche
Rose,' that had never peer of any earthly ladye.
Fearful ! —fearful !—she had to endure when the
priest came to curse her, and the bishop to make her
speak, and the proud peers, her kinsmen, spoke of
burning her on a hill, like queen Guinever ; yet she
would never tell the name of her false knight till this
hour. But now when the earl came, he w r as all con-
founded in her peril; and for his great repenting, he
hath confessed and accused him to the bishop, and
now r would do all the amende that may be to the
j heart-broken maiden, and make her true lady and
| countess of Toulouse.”
“ And what is this that shall be done to-night ?”
j said the peasant.
! “ The earl goes in his penance to the great church,”
I replied the townsman ; 11 and thereafter the Blanche
i Rose shall be your lady ; and let no man nor maiden
! think her slight, because the silk mitten w y as not
j puissant as the mail glove.”
j “ Truly I shall think her the truest and most,
dolorous lady that ever was named with lips,” said
the old man, “ and the devil spit in his face that shall
I ever say contrar !”
As he spoke, a faint chorus of voices came from the
j chateau, and a great light appeared beyond the black
j crowd of helmets and lances. It advanced slowly up
j the street, and at length the heavy tread of feet could
be heard through the crowd, and a choir of monks


chanting the penitential psalms. The solemn strain
approached, and rose and fell at intervals, till
suddenly the crowd gave back, and the w 7 hite monks
and bright torches came slowly into the square. All
the convents of Toulouse followed in long procession,
till a broad heaven of light shone upon the press, and
discovered the dark shadow's of the black penitents,
preceded by their cross, and lighted by a thousand
torches.
In the midst, bare-headed, and bare-footed, di-
vested of all his feudal ensigns, with a torch in his
hand and a chain upon his neck. Earl Raymond
walked, in the white gown ©f penance ; but his face
was whiter than the cindon, and his eyes bent on the
ground before the gaze and murmur that passed before
him. A thrill of grief, wonder, and admiration
passed through every heart which had so lately seen
his crowned head, riding through that street, in all
the light and glory of victory and the cross ; and at
each pause of the choir, a deep “ Amen," answered
from the crowd. As the procession came to the high
cross, the chant ceased, the train stopped, and the
heralds lifted their hands and cried “ ,Oyez, Oyez!
so should it be done to all knights, traitors to orphe-
lines and maidens.”
A deep death-pause rested upon the crowd, and no
voice answered back again ; the heavy tramp went
on, the chant rose up, and the procession passed on
towards the cathedral.
The long lines of monks vanished like shadows
within the deep arch of the great portal, till the white
gliding figures reappeared in the light of the still
choir, and the cowls, and gowns, and glittering
glaives poured through the dim aisles, till the choir
and nave were filled with the dark crowd. The
church was hung with black, and lighted as for a
soul-mass ; and as the torches and the penitent
advanced to the altar, the voices of the unseen choir,
and the still peal of the organ, went up over his head,
as if the saints and the seraphim mourned over him
in heaven. Raymond wrapped his face in his mantle,
and knelt upon the stone, and bow 7 ed his head upon
the footstool of the altar, till the priest raised him, and
set him on the “ siege doloureux,” in the sight of all
the people.
The service of the penitents was performed, the
monks extinguished their torches at the foot of the
shrine, and the heralds advanced to the altar. Sir
Raymond stood up and turned to the people, and the
pursuivants took off his w'hite gown, and displayed
his knightly habit and belt of estate. There was a
terrible pause, and not a breath passed in the chapel.
The heralds advanced to the earl, and broke his sword
over his head, and hew'ed the spurs from his heels,
and rent the fur from his tabard ; and immediately
his shield and crest were spurned from the church
door ; the trumpets sounded on the steps and the
heralds cried,—“ Raymond de Toulouse ! Raymond
de Toulouse ! Raymond de Toulouse ! traitor to God
and his lady, and man-sworn of his knighthood ;
traitor knight, so is thy name cast out from true
knights, and so I cast thy shame in thy teeth, and
defy thee in the name of God, the defender of the
orpheline and desolate !”
The people stood cold and still, and hushed as
death , and the blood w 7 ent out of the earl’s lips, till
they were white as his kirtle. The heralds sat down,
but Raymond stood still and vacant, his arms hanging
i» his side, and his eyes fixed upon the air,.
The bishop rose out of his chair, and took the book
I in his hand ; for a moment he stood and looked upon
: the knight.
“ In the garden of God, one little white rose grew
amidst the flowers, very fair and pure, and bright,
the sweetest among the blossoms ; the sun loved to
shine upon it by day, and the moon by night ; and
| the dew and the rain watered it in the heat, and the
breeze kissed it in the morning, and said God bless
thee, and he did bless it, till it was the fairest of the
earth—and the trees bent over to keep it from the
! wind, and the birds sung to it at noon, and the angels
jof God looked down upon it, and blessed his name
I that had made it lovely.
“ God gave thee the flower, and the forest to keep
and watch, and defend from all wrong ; and he gave
thee the oak, and the palm, the fair fields, and the
I still, green wood, and all that walked therein —and
| if this had not been enough he would have given thee
| more.
“ Thou spared to come to the cedar, and the oak,
and plucked the little flower that was lonely, and put
! it in thy bosom when it was sweet, and when it faded,
cast it on the ground to die, and went thy way !"
Raymond fell on his face before the altar ; and
the people wept and sobbed, and sunk on their knees,
| as if their hearts fell with his who bowed before
i them. The bishop laid his hand upon the book—
Ci When tlie wicked man turneth away from his
! wickedness that he had committed, and doeth that
I which is lawful and right, he shall save his soul
! alive ! Look up my son ; ‘ God is merciful and great
! to forgive us our offences ! —He will see thy repen-
tance and say, 1 Thou shalt not die !' ”
The earl rose upon his knee, and the bishop laid
his hand upon his head, and spoke the w 7 ords of abso-
lution, and laid the cross on his brow 7, and bid him
rise. Raymond stood up and the prelate kissed him
on the cheek, and belted him w 7 ith a new' sword ; and
the heralds braced clean spurs upon his heels, and put
a crest of a new device upon his head, and cried,
“ God make thee a new and valiant knight, and keep
these arms to his service, to aid the widow, orpheline,
and every one distressed and desolate, and maintain
the right against all men w 7 ho may live and die !”
Immediately the trumpets sounded, and the pursui
vants proclaimed him, lord, earl, and knight, the
furred mantle of state w r as cast over his shoulders,
and he came out among his people Raymond de
Toulouse.
* * % * * *
That night before the moon went down, Rose
knew how 7 she was cleared —but long she lay and
wept upon his feet and w 7 ould not be comforted ; and
when at last her strength and mind returned, it was
in the strength of her despair, to to the bishop,
and declare the truth; the hand of Raymond held
her like an infant on the grass, but she had no hear-
ing for his words, and would but wring her hands,
and cry to be released to do him justice, till she
sank exhausted upon the turf. He w atched by her
through the night, and in the morning, when her
I spirits ebbed away, and the strength of her delirium
was past, she w 7 as" subdued by his tears, and swore
1 upon his hand. The light came into his face and he
kissed her and rose up —“ You never broke your
word,” said he ; now I will leave you !”
* * * * * *
On St. Eride’s-day at noon, the earl, surrounded by


all the chivalry and beauty of Languedoc, stood at
the high altar, where he had done his penance.
■Blanche Rose bent before the priest in the white
bridal amice, her pale brow glistening with pearls
and gems, and the white flower shining like a star in
the long glossy tresses that fell upon her neck for the
last time. The earl put the ring upon her finger, the
priest set the coronet upon her brow, and the heralds
cried, Countess of Toulouse, at the high cross, amidst
the shouts of the people, and the waving of ten
thousand caps.
All the city was in a transport, for the constancy
“ of the bright lady of the world,” and the self-jus-
tice of her supposed traitor knight. “ Certainly,
said the Vicar of St. John, “ I think him greater for
this repenting, than if he never had tache or spot,
not to speak of tne ninety and nine in the wilder-
ness : he had then been but a puisnie saint, now he is
lith and blood like to you and me, but so as you and
I shall never be—the greatest mortal man that ever
quelled sinful flesh."
A week of pomp and pageant, and all that the
elden time held gay and splendid, passed through
Toulouse like a night’s mask, and again all returned
to the quiet sunshine, and still business of a simple
summer’s day.
The countess lived in deep seclusion, partly for
that the face of man was become terrible to her,
partly for her feeble state, which might not suffer
ceremony and fatigue. The leaves were falling, the
birds had ceased to sing, and the sun looked sad and
still upon the yellow fields, when the unconscious
cause of her sorrow was presented to the barons of
Languedoc in the great hall of Toulouse ; “ I do not
wrong them,” said Raymond, to its heart-broken
mother, as she wept at his feet, —“ My blood rung in
the veins of none living ; there is none to claim the
right— you shall make him worthy to hold the sword
and the coronet of a brave people, and God and their
service shall give him right, better than a name.
(To be continued.)
Varieties.
Preventive Service. —The plan which Frederick the
Great adopted to check duelling amongst his officers, was to
allow them to fight when and on what account they pleased,
upon these conditions, namely, that one of the parties must be
shot, and the other immediately hanged on the spot.
Friendship. —lt is a curious, but an undeniable faet, that
the meeting, after absence, of old friends, is almost always
constrained and silent at first; they are surprised to find how
little they have said of what they meant to say. It merely
shows, after all, that affectation is a habit.
New and most useful Society. —A “ Wear-your-old-
clothes Society” has just been formed. It is becoming ex-
tremely popular. Its members increase daily. If the present
times continue, people will be compelled to wear their old
clothes till they are quite ragged, for who can pay the enormous
bills of the tailors now ?
A certain cure for Corns. —One teaspoonful of tar, one
ditto of coarse brown sugar, and one ditto of saltpetre. The
whole to be warmed together, and spread on kid leather the
size of the corn, and in two days they will be drawn out. The
correspondent of an American paper says, that the common
bean leaf, bruised and applied upon corns every night, on
going to bed, was a certain remedy for these troublesome cx-
#mc’ene'es. He and others have tried it with entire success.
An Awkward Man.— lt is not unusual in life to see an
awkward fellow making a false step. He attempts to recover
himself, and makes another; the second is followed by a third,
and down he comes, Here is an anecdote as an illustration
of successive awkward positions : A gentleman said to Lord
North, “ Pray, my lord, who is that ugly woman sitting there?"
“That is my youngest sister,” said his lordship. “Good
God!” said the gentleman, “ I don’t mean her, I mean the
next.” “ That is my eldest sister,” replied his lordship. “ 1
protest,” cried the gentleman, “ 1 don’t mean her, but the
third.” “That is my wife,” said Lord North. “ The devil!”
cried the gentleman. “ You may well say that,” said Lord
North, “for she is as ugly as one. But, Sir, console yourself;
we are the ugliest family in England,”
There is a great deal of happiness in this world, it you
know how to extract it, or rather, we should say, of pleasure.
There is a pleasure in doing good ; there is a pleasure, unfor -
tunately, in doing wrong; there is a pleasure in looking for-
ward, aye, and in looking backward also ; there is a pleasure
in loving and being loved; in eating, in drinking, and though
last, not least, in smoking. We do not mean to say that there
are not the drawbacks of pain, regret, and even remorse, but
there is a sort of pleasure even in them ; it is pleasant to
repent, because you know that you are doing your duty ; and
if there is no great pleasure in pain, it precedes an excess
when it has left you. We say again, that if you know how to
extract it, there is a great deal of pleasure and happiness in
this world.
Metaphysics —A Scotch political economist being asked
the meaning of melaphysica explained it thus—“ When the
party who listens dinna ken what the party who speaks means,
and the party who speaks dinna ken what he means himsel —■
that’s just metaphysics.”
Freedom of Speech.—Without freedom of thought therj
can be no such thing as wisdom, and no such thing as public
liberty, without freedom of speech, which is the right of every
man, as far as by it he does not hurt and control the right
of another, and this is the only check which it ought to snffer,
and the only bounds which it ought to know. Freedom of
speech produces excellent writers, and encourages men of fine
genius. Tacitus tells us that the Roman Commonwealth bred
great and numerous authors, but when it was enslaved its
great wits were no more, Tyranny had usurped the place of
equality, which is the soul of liberty, and destroyed public
courage. The minds of men, terrified by unjust power, de
generated into all the vileness of methods of servitude; ab-
ject sycophancy, and blind submission became the only means
of preferment, and indeed, of safety ; men durst not open
their mouths but to flatter. Pliny, the younger, observes that
this dread of tyranny had such an effect, that the Senate, the
great Roman Senate, became at last stupid and dumb ; and
in one of his epistles, speaking of the works of his uncle, he
makes an apology for eight of them as not written with the
same vigour which was to be found in the rest; for that these
eight were written in the reign of Nero, when the spirit of
writing was cramped by fear.
Courage. —A great many anecdotes are related of persons
bravery. We should like to see that man who would deliberately
allow a woman to catch him making mouths at her first baby.
A Good One. —A little girl who had been in the habit of
begging for cold victuals, called, as she’had been accustomed,
at a certain house in a village, and on being given the usual
portion, entered her protest against it, and said there was
not enough. “ Why,” said the lady, “is not this as much
as we have been in the habit of giving you ?” The girl
very innocently replied, “ Oh yes, but we are taking boaaders
now,"


The Moralist.
THE HUMAN FRAME AND STRUCTURE.
Weak and ignorant as thou art, O man ! humble as thou
oughtest to be, O child of the dust ! wouldst thou raise thy I
thoughts to infinite wisdom ? wouldst thou see Omniootence
displayed before thee ? contemplate thine own frame.
Fearfully and wonderfully art thou made: praise therefore!
thy Creator with awe, and rejoice before him with reverence. !
Wherefore of all creatures art thou only erect, but that thou ;
shouldst behold his works ! wherefore art thou to behold, but [
that thou mayest admire them ! wherefore to admire, but that !
thou mayest adore their and thy Creator !
Wherefore is consciousness reposed in thee alone ? and '
whence is it derived to thee ?
It is not in flesh to think ; it is not in bones to reason. The I
lion knoweth not that worms shall eat him ; the ox perceiveth |
not that he is fed for slaughter.
Something is added to thee unlike to what thou seest: S
something informs thy clay, higher than all that is the object of |
thy senses, Behold, what is it ?
Thy body remaineth perfect after it is fled, therefore it is no
part of it; it is immaterial, therefore it is eternal : it is free to
act, therefore it is unaccountable for its actions.
Knoweth the ass the use of food, because his teeth mow
down the herbage ? or standest the crocodile erect, although !
his backbone is as straight as thine ?
God formed thee as he had formed these: after them all [
wast thou created : superiority and command were given thee j
over all; and of his own breath did he communicate to thee !
thy principle of knowledge.
Know thyself then the pride of his creation, the link uniting
divinity and matter; behold a part of God himself within
thee : remember thine own dignity, nor dare to descend to
to evil or meanness.
Who planted terror in the tail of the serpent ? who clothed
the neck of the horse with thunder? even he who hath
instructed thee to crush the one under thy feet, and to tame
the other to thy purposes.
MORAL MAXIMS.
ALPHABETICALLY ARRANGED.
No. 31.
Casual omissions, and little sallies of wit, should never be
severely visited.
Catch not at the shadow and lose the substance.
Cater frugally for the body, if you would feed the mind
sumptuously.
Celebrate the actions of others, but sound not [the trumpet
of your own praise.
Censure is a tax which those who fill eminent situations
must expect to pay.
Certain good should never be relinquished for uncertain
hopes.
Change of fortune is the lot of life.
Change seldom, for changes are inconvenient.
Charity begins at home.
Charity is friendship in common, and friendship is charity
inclosed.
Charity loses its benign influence when heralded by osten-
tation.
Charity obliges us not to mistrust a man ; prudence, not to
trust before we know him.
Pride. —Of all sins, jjride is the most offensive to God ;
probably because it was the original sin of the devil, and led
the way to all other sins; and because our Maker knows best
the weakness and dependent nature of his creatures. Of all
kinds of pride, he hates the spiritual most, probably because
he most perfectly discerns our want of real worth, our wicked-
ness, and our hypocrisy.— Skelton.
Liberality, —There is no one of the current terms of the
day against whose misuse in argument we should be more vigi-
lant, than the word liberality. It is a most seductive word,
because it seems connected with enlargement of mind, and a
freedom from contracted views of things. But it has been
so often claimed by those who, in their sentiments and acts
“ betray” Christ, that we cannot be too suspicious of its appli-
cation. It is the candour which is found within the realms of
truth, which is alone legitimate : that which stands on the
confines of truth and error, and casts, alternately, a smile on
each, is indifference, is treason.— Eden.
Select Poetry.
SHE WAS A PHANTOM.
She was a Phantom of delight
When first she gleam’d upon my sight,
A lovely Apparition, sent
To be a moment’s ornament ;
Her eyes as stars of Twilight fair,
Like Twilight’s, too, her dusky hair;
But all things else about her drawn
From May-time and the cheerful Daws ,
A dancing shape, an image gay,
To haunt, to startle, and waylay.
I saw her upon nearer view,
A Spirit, yet a Woman too !
Her household motions light and free.
And steps of virgin liberty ;
A countenance in which did meet
Sweet records, promises as sweet ;
A Creature not too bright or good
For human nature’s daily food ;
For transient sorrows, simple wiles,
Praise, blame, love, kisses, tears, and smdes,
And now I see with eye serene
The very pulse of the machine;
A Being breathing thoughtful breath,
A Traveller between life and death ;
The reason firm, the temperate will,
Endurance, foresight, strength, and skill ;
A perfect Woman, nobly plant'd,
To warm, to comfort, and command ;
And yet a Spirit still, and bright
With something of an angel light.
Wordsworth,
THE CONFESSION OF LOVE.
[a madrigal.]
1 sat down by her side, and told my love,
Pressing one arm around her slender waist;
When she, with sudden start, and blushful has'?.
And mild averted face,
Seeking my trembling finger*to remove,
Half rose from my embrace ;
Yet, somehow, seemed reluctant to reprove.
A timid hope, commingling with vague fears,
Came shivering o’er mine eyelids, wet with tears :
The sweet emotion linked her soul with mine—
She fell upon my neck, and murmured “ Thine !”
A. db Vere.
MARRIAGE RITE.
Young, chaste, and lovely—pleas’d, yet half afraid,
Before yon altar droops a plighted maid,
Clad in her bridal robes of taintless white,
Dumb with the scene, and dazzled with delight;
Around her hymeneal guardians stand,
Each with devoted look, and feeling bland ;
And oft she turns her soul-expressing eye,
Dimm’d with a tear for happiness gone by!
Then coyly views, in youth’s commanding pride,
Her own adored one kneeling by her side ;
Like lilies bending from the noon-tide blaze,
Her bashful eye-lids droop beneath his gaze ;
While love and homage blend their blissful power,
And shed a halo round his marriage hour.
What though this chance-abounding life ordain
A path of anguish and precarious pain;
By want or woe, where’er compell’d he rove,
A cot’s a palace by the light of love !
There beats one heart, which until death will be
A fountain-source of fondest sympathy ;
One frownless eye to kindle with his owm,
One changeless friend, when other friends are flown ;
O! sanction Thou the love-united pair,
Author of Love ! for Thou art present there.
MONTGOMERY.


Notice to ©omspontfcnts.
We trust our valued friends and allies, Horace, T. L. D., * * *,
.flSneas, Frederick, and H., have not forgotten us, or grown
weary of embellishing the pages, and promoting so successfully
the welfare, of the Colonial Literary Journal. We had
hoped, indeed, that our late anxious appeal (see Preface, pub-
lished on 26th December) would have been productive of Jar
brighter results. We again solicit, most respectfully, the
favours of our literary contributors.
D. H. D.’s verses are by no means extraordinary.
Abraham Nothnagel. —We must reject this tale at, though ludi-
crous, not sufficiently deserving of insertion. If the author has
sufficient acquaintance with Colonial manners and scenery, his
talents, applied to their delineation, might produce something
more worthy of our pages.
6 after Gray.— We regret that our correspondent's communication
tame too late for insertion this weelc.
ERRATUM IN ARTICLE ON FLAX.
No. .10, page 42, line 17 from bottom, for spontaneseent read
spontenascent.
KALANGLOA.
A TALE OF THE HAWKESBURY.
[For. the Colonial Literary Journal.]
Matthew Carberry was the worthy and respected j
proprietor of the farm, known as Kalangloa, in the j
neighbourhood of which I spent the greater portion J
of my early days. Long and weary as has been the
lapse of years since the period of my acquaintance-
ship with the old farmer and his family, my mind
still retains a lively and pleasing impression of their
characteristics ; and the remembrance is not the less
vivid in consequence of those ties and associations of
childhood and early friendship, which form connect-
ing links in the chain of “ sweet memories.”
Matthew Carberry had been a soldier, and bravely !
had he fought beneath the banners of his king and
country. Few engagements had occurred during the
long and sanguinary struggles of the Peninsular war,
m which Matthew Carberry had not had a share.
He had left an arm at Salamanca, and his body bore
evidences of at least three musket shots received be-
neath the ramparts of Ciudad Rodrigo. Thus pos-
sessing an individual portion both of the laurels and the
thorns of glory, he returned to his native land, and
after a few years of rest amid the scenes of his boy-
hood, accepted the free passage and outfit to New
South Wales tendered by the government in commu-
tation of the usual pension. On his arrival in our
southern land, and at an early period of our history,
he was located at the hands of the illustrious Mac-
quarie, upon one of the many beautiful creeks of
Cornwallis which have their origin in the waters of
the Hawkesbury. It was here that he spent the
remnant of his days ; and the spot, exquisitely ro-
manLc and beautiful in itself, became doubly endeared
to the old man, both on account of the happy and
pleasing associations he had connected with it, and
a . s , e lr |i - pla-ce of his children. The house con-
sisted of the usual demi-bark, demi-log dwelling of
the country, but which nevertheless had a peculiar
appearance of neatness and comfort, and even of
taste in those outward rural decorations of flowers
and vmes, which nature has placed for the adornment
of the humblest cot,-and which, after all, are the
only exterior ornaments which speak directly to the
heart. The neat trim flower-pots which stood in
such luxuriant bloom before the door of the hut, and!
he numberless vines, principally those indigenous to
the surrounding country, which climbed so gracefully
over the bark roof, and shed so rich and fragrant a
perfume around the clear dry atmosphere, all gave
evidences of superior predilections on the part of its
occupants. "When, however, times became more
prosperous with the veteran, and the spirit of fashion-
able innovation began to advance in the country with
speedier steps, a substantial stone dwelling of far
higher pretensions took the place of the former modest
domicile, and with its peculiarly Australian-looking
verandah and villa-like appurtenances, formed an
addition of great importance to the freehold of Ka-
langloa.
Of the family of Matthew Carberry, which con-
sisted of two sons, and the like number of daughters,
perhaps the most remarkable, and at the same time,
by far the dearest to her father’s heart, was the
younger of the latter, a young girl of exceeding
beauty, and who, to the best of my recollection, had,
at the time I speak of, reached her sixteenth year.
The person of Margaret Carberry was tall and deli-
cately proportioned, and though her features might
not be deemed critically beautiful, there was yet so
irresistible a grace and loveliness spread over the
whole, as to leave little room for doubt of the strength
of her personal attractions. The merry glances of
her dark eyes beamed forth with all the brilliance of
an Italian beauty from beneath her tresses of rich
chesnut, which fell with such surpassing grace
on her sun-burnt but exquisitely-moulded neck ;
while her frank earnest gaze and simple attire, all
spoke of the presence of one of nature’s purest chil-
dren—a forest beauty ! It was little wonder then,
that Margaret should have so imperceptibly twined
herself around the very heart-strings of her aged
parent. We are ever apt to love the graceful and the
beautiful in the spring-time of our youth, as in the
autumn of our days !
But Margaret Carberry already loved—and deeply
loved • yet wholly unworthy and undeserving of her
pure and deep affection was the object of it. She
nourished a devoted and earnest passion for one, who
had been in childhood her playmate, the companion
of her rambles in her native woods, and the reposi-
tory of all her little childish joys and griefs ; and in
more advanced youth, her ardent and impassioned
friend. But in the rainbow visions of affection and
peace which she drew for herself; and in those day-
dreams of future happiness on the banks of her own
native Hawkesbury, and in the bosom of the rude
forests-where her first young thoughts expanded into
reason, w hen she pictured her lover in all the radiance
which her passion inspired, she little conceived how
utterly depraved and worthless that being w T as, whom
she had taught herself to love to a madness border-
ing almost on adoration. Edward Bingham, her
betrothed, and the approved husband of her deluded
parents’ choice, was secretly a gamester, and a pro-
fessed sharper, to the utmost degree that the then
latitudinarian manners of his native land admitted.
Years of acquaintance with vice and dissipation had
totally obliterated from his soul the noble and
generous sentiments of his youth; and the recollec-
tions of his early days at Kalangloa seemed to his
mind, at best, like the vague recollections of a trouble-
some dream. His name and character were no mys-
teries in the circles of vice of the metropolis ; though
as if by one of those strange fatuities which so often
happen in life, Matthew Carberry and his family
were the last that became acquainted with his prac


tices—but the crisis at length came. Regular, and
seemingly affectionate, as had been the visits of
Bingham to Kalangloa—the home of his intended
bride, and future parents —there had lately appeared !
a striking laxity and carelessness in the regularity;
which had characterized his former visits. Deeply \
touched as was Margaret Carberry at the neglect of J
her lover, the astonishment and chagrin of the family, I
when at the end of three months neither call nor j
communication was received from the truant lover,!
advanced to positive dejection. The worthy farmer j
had e\en debated within himself if he should
not personally proceed, or at least dispatch one of his
sons in search of the young man, that his ingenuous I
surmises might be satisfied regarding the supposed
sickness or fatal accident that had happened to him,
and delayed those periodical visits which were, in so
marked a degree, hailed with delight by the whole
family, and from which, it might be said one of its
members derived her very being.
The path to grief, though often a long road, is ever }
a sure one. Intelligence relating to Edward Bingham j
at length reached the family at Kalangloa, and from j
a quarter the least expected, for the letters despatched j
to Sydney had still remained unanswered. This in- !
formation emanated from an itinerant vendor of small j
wares and small news, who in those days formed a !
character of no inconsiderable importance among the j
little communities he visited monthly or quarterly, as
suited his circumstances or hopes of profit. This
individual, commonly known on the Hawkesbury as
“ Gossipping Jerry,” was in the main a good-hearted :
fellow ; and it gave him some degree of pain to be the
the bearer of tidings to Kalangloa which he well
knew were fraught with sorrow and misery. Once
arrived, his tale was soon told :—Edward B ngham,
who had long held an onerous and responsible
situation in a principal warehouse of the town, had
for some time privately betrayed his trust to a degree
at once felonious and shameful ; at length he found
the frugal profits accruing from such sources quite
inefficient to minister to his insatiate love of dissi-
pation and gaming, and in an evil hour he committed
a forgery upon his employers —a forgery to such an
amount that its escaping detection was impossible.
The fraud was discovered, and the young man arres-
ted, imprisoned, and eventually tried for a crime,
which the laws of that period deemed a capital
offence. Upon his trial, however, his extreme youth
had a favourable effect upon the clemency of his
judges, who commuted the final sentence of the law,
awarded in such cases,to that of perpetual banishment
to the then penal settlement of Port Macquarie. “ He
had left the prison in Sydney, ” Jerry added, while
a tear moistened his eye, “ but very few days before
he, himself, had set out for the Hawkesbury, and his
last words were, as he left the court-house, his hands
bound, and his ears deafened with the clank of his
own chain,” his last words were : “to bear his best
respects to Mr. Carberry and his family, and above
all his faithful love to Miss Margaret, and his hopes
of forgiveness for the past; while he might indulge
a hope when sin and wretchedness were past him, to
meet her beyond the grave ; hut never, oh! never,
could he think of again beholding her upon earth !
Loud and deep as was the grief of the thunder-
stricken family when the pedlar had concluded his
narration, and silently departed, Margaret Carberry,
ef all, seemed the least affected, if excess of sorrow
might be judged by the tears and groans of the
mourDer ; she sat silent, and to all appearance
paralyzed; no word escaped from her clay-cold lips ;
no breath gave indication that life animated a figure
which one might well imagine a statue created by the
genius of a Grecian sculptor, and designed to re-
present Powerless Grief.
Many months passed before Margaret Carberry
returned to a state of perfect consciousness, but the
crisis of her disorder once surmounted, her return to
convalescence became more speedy. Again, to all
appearance, she became the light of her father’s home,
and if any difference in her outward appearance
could be remarked, it was that of beauty and grace,
superior even to the charms in which, before the sad
catastrophe I have described, she stood so proudly
pre-eminent. But it was said, and by those who
knew her best, that her bright smiles and flushed cheek
but veiled a broken heart, like the pale blossoms of
the acacia, which bloom the brightest when on the eve
! of fading.
It was on a calm and beautiful night in December,
| when the deep blue skies above glittered gorgeously
j with the effulgence of myriads of stars; and the dark
I verdant forests seemed to slumber peacefully in the
I night air, that the family of Matthew Carberry were,
j according to their evening custom, assembled in the
| verandah of Kalangloa. When sorrow has made her
thorny pathway in a solitary home, her influence is
felt by each and all of its members in a sympathetic
and almost involuntary manner. They sat together
■ in the bright silvery moonlight, as they had often
done in happier days, not, as of yore, in gaiety and
hope, when the contentment of the parent and the
bright dreams of the future, which more especially
belonged to the young, had knit their hearts in one
fair and gentle bond ; all were deeply engrossed in
their own thoughts, and none manifested a desire for
conversation, which, though the old man had en-
deavoured to introduce a topic, turned upon one
only subject—it could turn but upon one subject
and that was one of deep and sorrowful import to
all. Margaret spoke not, but she reposed passively
her beautiful head, and sweet spiritual features,seem-
ing so sad and yet so exceeding lovely in the pale
moonlight, reclined in her mother’s lap. A faint low
murmur would now and then escape from her lips as
if she enjoyed some pleasant dream ; when the chill
dews of night began to fall more heavily, they raised
her gently up, but the spirit had fled from its mansion
of sorrow —she was dead !
Yearspassedslowly on,and the old veteran, broken-
hearted and exhausted with the weight of years, was
laid by the side of his beautiful and darling child.
No tidings ever reached the brothers Carberry of the
ultimate fate of the reprobated but unfortunate
Bingham ; and they, weary of a spot whose every
| beauty more vividly brought before their minds the
recollections of sorrow, and the memories of the un-
| fortunate fate of those whom they loved so well,
retired from their home, and dispersed themselves
through their native land. Since then, Kalangloa
has passed into the hands of the stranger.
D. D.
fit will give us much pleasure to receive tales written, like
the foregoing, with an especial reference to colonial manners,
scenes, customs, and events. We are satisfied that there is
already a plentiful harvest for the lover of fiction to &e
gathered from Life in Australia. —to. C. L. J


Original Poetry.
IS ALL THEN LOST ?
Awake ! Australia’s sons, awake !
And from those fetters proudly break,
Which now, in iron grasp confined,
(lontrouls each effort of the mind.
Beyond misfortune’s chilling blast,
Beyond the gloom her shadows cast,
There sure remains some sunny spot
To cheer each sufferer’s hapless lot !
Ts all then lost ? Has woman’s smil«
Nought now remaining to beguile
The tedium of that darkened past,
Whose shade has thus your lot o’ercast ?
Is friendship’s power, whose soothing eharm
Was wont each misery to disarm,
Less potent now, when sorrows press,
Or feels she now the claim the less
Than once she felt, in happier days,
When cheerfully she wreathed her bays
Around that brow which now is cast
In dark forebodings from the past?
No, no ! while yet a hope remains,
Woman her influence still sustains !
Will ever watch with anxious eye,
To chase the lurking misery nigh.
And friendship, too, will lend its power
To soothe the misery of that hour,
When hope no longer will impart
Its gladsome influence o’er the heart.
Then cease that sad repining strain,
And happiness shall once again
I Hume the darken’d path you tread,
And shower its blessings on your head !
MARY-ANN.
I hope the author of the elegant verses in your last wil
excuse the following very free translation.
Arma gravi numero parabo*
Arms in great number I’ll prepare,
Violentaque bella edere
And war to shake the world declare,
[The Tricolor shall be my banner,]
Materia conveniente modis
The matter matching with the manner,
par,
[Perfidious Albion, now our] equal,
Eritf inferior versus
Shall turn a suppliant [in the sequel]
cupido
[Thus did the princely] young gallant
[His future deeds and prowess vaunt,]
Dicitur risisse
And smil’d, ’tis said, [with French grimaee]
Atque surripuisse unum pedem
And skipp’d and hopp’d [all round the place].
HAMILTONIANUS JOINWELL.
* ho, emendation of bam.’ f Emendation of erat.
Will “ Ah, cruel boy, who let you out ?” do for
11 Quis tibi, sseve puer, dedit juris ?”
And “ Your mother does not know, I doubt,” for
“ Quid si Venus? ”
THE NIGHT WATCHMAN’S MUSINGS.
Late and lone I walk my beat
In th’ empty, dull and silent street;
To me nor silent ’tis nor dull,
For then my heart and brain are full.
Ever onwards as I go,
Up or down, or quick or slow,
In my brain’s interior lurking
Thoughts the thieves of peace are working
On the East side, or the West,
My heart is more and more oppress’d ;
On the West side or the East,
My griefs are more and more increas’d;
From the North unto the South
My heart is ever in my mouth ;
From the South unto the North,
From my mouth the sighs come forth,
And forms that rise uhwish’d, unhidden,
Won’t depart though shunn’d and chidden.
Dull? ’tis dullness that I seek,
From night to night, from week to week.
Silent ? no uneasy sound
Stirs indeed the air around ;
Sound of trumpet, drum or tabor,
Tramp or tumult, pomp or labour,
Flute, piano, violin,
Or early carts’ untimeous din,
Or boosers homeward-bound who bawl
In the streets more centrical.
But what avails external quiet
When the brain is all a-riot ?
When thro’ all that sentient globe,
Gland and process, nerve and lobe,
Sense and passion, thought and will
Throb and thrill, and ne’er are still?
When cineritious or medullary
All’s distraction in the skullery!
Lo—the thoughts of thoughtless youth
Rise, bright links of guileless truth
Shining, flimsy catenations,
Glimmering faint associations —
Memories of the priceless days
Ere I knew the blame, or praise,
Sin, or debt, or care of man—
Ere this century began.
Reminiscences of roaming,
Groaning woods, and torrents foaming,
Nuttings, nestings, schoolday rambles,
For junipers, bilberries, brambles,
Crabs and sloes, hips, haws, and plums
Freely shar’d amongst my chums, —
Strawberries wild and sweet and small,
Rasps, and geens surpassing all, —•
Fierce assaults with stones and clod*
’Gainst the wasps’ tree-hung abodes—
Or diggings patient deep, to seize
The treasures of the burrowing bees.
Regretfully are now regarded
Days when sheep and nolt I herded—
By the sides of fields of barley,
Bearded, glossy, rip’ning early,—
Or by field of purpling clover
When the rye-grass time is over, —
By field of turnips, hoed and green,—
Tares, green pease, or black horse bean, —
Variegated blossoms there
And swelling pods perfume the air !
From places where they could not browze
I cut grass daily for the cows,—
I winter turnips cut for them,
Which butter-lovers all condemn, —
I shore the woolly creatures’ backs :
Pull’d, and ripp’d, and steep’d the flax ;
Lated oats, both stalk and pickle,
Close I reap’d with toothed sickle,
Savingly—the grain for porridge,
And the straw for winter forage.
In the woods we cut and gather'd
Fuel green and fuel wither’d,
Cut with grinded axe and hook,
Whose resonance the forest shook.
Peat we sought in lonely moss
Dangerous to attempt to cross—
Cut in May or June, and lying
Through the months of summer drying ,
Lying there to dry and shrink
On black quagmire’s treach’rous brink,
Till, when black and hard as stone,
(Or, it may be, light and brown,)
By light horses and light loads,
Suited to rough mountain roads,
Pack’d in box-cart, pacing wary,


Home the precious blocks we carry.
Ah ! lightly pass’d our life away
In the moors of Galloway !
Often of such things I think
By the midnight lantern’s blink,
And my soul rememb’ring frets,
t\ith heavy, gloomy, vain regrets ;
l 4 or no glow nor gleam of hope
Gives my spirit strength or scope.
Other thoughts 1 have as well,
Intrusive, unforgettable,
Of more wretchedness than those—
Which me suits not to disclose.
One thing more—hark in your ear—
To my olfacdve nerve ’tis clear,
A working still is somewhere near !
NOCTIVAGUS.
VEGETABLE FOOD.
(From a French Work.)
The various vegetables used as food, differ as well in
their action on the animal economy, as in the quan-
tity of nutriment they contain. As our limits will
not allow us to examine each severally, we shall
separate them into sections, comprehending all the
analogies.
Ihe Farinaceous. Of these vegetables, wheat is
undoubtedly the one most generally employed. The
abundance of gluten and nutritious matter that enter
into its composition, renders it preferable for the mak-
ing of bread ; it digests with the greatest facility, and
furnishes a large portion of chyle. The exclusive
use of this kind of food, however, occasions a super-
abundance of blood. Great bread-eaters have the
vascular system full; the pulse, though strong re-
markably slow ; and in general, a tendency to pie-
thora. 1 heir muscles become more strong and robust,
but they have not the quickness of movement, and the
elasticity of persons who live upon more stimulating
tood. The functions of the mind also have less acti-
vity, and the sensibility seems blunted. This state of
apparent calmness always conceals the elements of in-
flammatory maladies, intense in proportion to the more
or less superabundance of the sanguine fluid. Such a
diet is improper, therefore, for persons of a strong and
stout constitution, or persons subject to haemorrhage,
to the impulsion of blood, &c., but it would be useful
in cases of great nervous irritability, when the hema-
tose is vitiated, as in scurvy ; or where debility and
poverty of blood announce a deficiency of the nourish-
ing juices.
Farinaceous vegetables are valuable aliments,
gentle in their action ; and a mixture of them with
animal productions, is, in some sort, the complement
of the nourishment of man: but their quantity
should be proportioned to the constitution, and to the
predispositions which, according to age or sex deter-
mine the liability to different affections.
Bread made of pure wheat is the best and the
lightest] all its principles are almost entirely ab-
sorbed. That in which other flour is introduced
such as barley, rye, oats, or the fecula of potato, is
not only more compact, but also slower of digestion.
Ihe former suits best for sedentary or inactive per-
sons, because their digestive powers have less* energy •,
but the second is best for the working classes. It
makes them less sensible of the imperious calls of
hunger, during the hours devoted to labour. Hot
bread is always heavier than stale ; and in all cases,
eiust digests more readily than crumb, because the
latter, being much softer, requires little mastication ; !
while the former, being more masticated, absorbs
more saliva, and demands less effort on the part of
the stomach. Long mastication is absolutely neces-
sary to an easy digestion. Too little attention is
paid to this fact, and to this omission many evils are
attributable. It cannot be too earnestly recommended
to weak and delicate persons to divide and temper
their food in the mouth, as completely as possible,
before it is entrusted to the stomach.
The Leguminous. —In the number of aliments of
this kind, it is necessary to comprehend the roots of
certain vegetables, their leaves, their stalks, their
seeds, and even their flowers. These parts contain
diffeient degrees of nutriment, and ought to be gathered
at the most favourable period of vegetation. Thus,
carrots, lettuces, asparagus, gourds, peas, cauli-
flowers, &c., are used only when the roots, leaves,
; stalks, seeds, &c., respectively, abound with sap •
, and each contains the nourishing and peculiar juices
| destined to the full growth of the vegetable. In fine,
j if the stalks were fully developed, the roots would
; become dry and woody, the leaves hard and cor-
iaceous ; they would no longer be susceptible of
, digestion, and would even cease lobe nutritious.
Two parts necessarily exist in vegetables : the
i one contains all that is alimentary—it is the muci-
laginous extract] the other is the vegetable fibre,
which will not digest, and and is constantly re-
jected. Now, it may be said, that the more muci-
lage any vegetable substance may contain, and the
less of the fibrous part, the more it is susceptible of
I assimilation. The leguminous are by no means so
nutritious as the farinaceous vegetables, and produce
but a small proportion of chyle.
The effects of a constant diet of this kind are not
difficult to distinguish : the stomach, wearied by the
sweet moist mucilage of leguminous substances,
furnishes to the assimilative agents but little nutri-
tion, and peculiarly relaxing] thus the contractibility
of the heart is weakened, the skin loses its colour,
and the vital properties of all the tissues become
singularly relaxed ; the blood itself becomes more
liquid; and a full and swollen appearance often
announces the want of energy of the acquired consti-
tution. Such diet, then, is contra-indicated for per-
sons of weak and feeble habit, and especially
for those in whom the white fluids predominate.
Neither are they proper for persons whose organs of
locomotion have need of vigour and activity ; nor
those in whom an habitual state of indolence betray*
the languor of the functions, and the imminence of a
leuco-phlegmatic and weak habit of body ; but, on
the contrary, a vegetable diet may be employed to
great advantage, where the thickening of the blood
disposes to an inflammatory state. This regimen is
no less proper when it is desirable to temper nervous
susceptibility.
Unless in such cases as we have mentioned, legu-
minous vegetables, mingled with different kinds of
meat, compose the best and most wholesome diet, be-
cause this mixture of the two is more strengthening
than vegetables alone, and less stimulating than an en-
tirely animal diet. According to these principles,
the more or less proportion of either should be deter-
mined by the constitution of the individual.
Fruits are not generally considered as food, but
rather as accessories en raison of the quantity of
saccharine, acidulous, or oily matter they may con-
tain ; the mucilage with which these principles are


united, however, gives them nutritive properties more
or less decided.
The sugar in sweet fruits, such as apricots, plums,
and the dried fruits, as figs, raisins, &c., makes them
particularly desirable—it is of easy digestion, its
assimilation is almost complete.
Sweet fruits are a great resource for convalescents,
and all cases where it is desirable to increase
nutrition ; but then two conditions are necessary :
the first, that these fruits should contain as little
mucus as possible ; the other, that the stomach be
strong enough to overcome their laxative influence.
In such cases this nourishment, judiciously mingled
with substances slightly stimulant, will give strength
to the constitution, but it will be readily conceived
that it must be injurious whenever there is the least
predisposition to plethora or inflammation.
The most common of the acid fruits are goose-
berries, currants, cherries, strawberries, apples, pears,
peaches, raspberries, mulberries, oranges and lemons.
Though the acetic, citric, malic, and moric acids
contained in these fruits is always mingled with a
considerable quantity of sugary mucus, they are not
nutritious, but rather exercise their influence in
exciting the appetite, and favouring the digestion of
other substances eaten at the same time. It is neces-
sary, however, that they be eaten in moderation, other-
wise they will occasion serious disorders.
The oily fruits are nuts, walnuts, almonds, and
eocoa-nuts. Alone, they are hard of digestion, and
although the oil they contain, united with the vege-
table pulp, affords a sufficiency of nutriment, it is
necessary to their digestion that they should be mas-
ticated until every particle be completely crushed.
Beat!;.
On the 18th instant, at his residence, George-street, Mr.
Charles Smith, for many years an old and respected colonist.
Mr. Smith will be sincerely and deservedly regretted by a
numerous circle of friends ; and the labouring portion of
the community, will sustain a severe loss in him, as he was a
good employer and liberal master. His remains will be in-
terred this morning at eight o’clock.
Agents for this Journal.
Sydney, Mr. W. Jones, Circulating Library, Brickfield-hill.
Parramatta Mr. Hugh Taylor.
Windsor Mr. Walker.
Bathurst Mr. Tress.
West Maitland Mr. Galloway.
Camden, Campbelltown, Penrith, and
Liverpool Mr. C. Lester.
Gunning Mr. Hawthorne.
Ex MIDLOTHIAN.
Best London starch
Best glazed Starch
Best Stone Blue
Best Powder Blue
Bottled Fruits
Pickles and Sauces
Imperial Cap Paper
Bag Cap ditto
Cartridge ditto
Royal ditto
News ditto
Cap ditto
Imported and on Sale by
BEN HAM AND CO.,
George-street.
TORTEH, 6s. 6d. PER DOSEN.
ON Sale, at the Stores of the undersigned, 75, King-street
Mest near York-street, London Porter, 6s. 6d. per
aozen by the single dozen. Warranted equal to Dunbar 1
N. 13. Casa returned if not approved of.
TEBBWTT & CO.
Now occupied by ,
Mr. Chapman. <
Particulars of tlhe Sale of W. H. Chapman's, Esq.,
©eorge and Hunter Street Properties.
IN GEORGE-STREET.
ALL that important and exceedingly valuable CITY
f FREEHOLD ESTATE, standing on an
area of some 2500 feet, and upon which
a bonus of £3OOO and more has been
expended within these last two years;
representing it as one of the most com-
plete, substantial, capacious, and perfect
business doing, Mercantile Establish-
ments in the “ whole city,”
COMPRISING,
THE CITY SALE ROOMS,
dwelling-house, immense stores, spacious
dry floorage and cellarage, import and
export lofty warehouses, wool shed, &e.
THE AUCTION ROOM,
extending from George-street to the wool
room at the rear, is 86 feet, with numerous
premises, &c.
No. 306, George-street.
'"Mr. ALDIS’S well-known import and
export Cigar and Snuff Repository, large
retail shop, dwelling-house, manufactory,
monthly, about 8 to !> acco rooms > stores, cellarage, and pre-
years coa ch-house, stabling, &c. The
fullest trade, and share of patronage of
any shop in all Sydney, may be fairly
put to the credit of No. 306, George-
l^street.
No. 310, George-street.
per $ A House and Premises occupied by Mr.
\ Barnett, Jeweller, adjoining Mr. Aldis.
No: 312, George-street.
On lease to Mr.
A'dis, at £275 per
annum, payable
or a return of
£2200 in 8 years
on the purchase.
Let at £ll7
annum.
Let at £ll7
annum.
per T House and Premises in the occupation of
< Mr. Lublin, Hat and Cap Manufacturer,
Vnear the City Sale Rooms.
Besides other Houses and Building Properties, as per plan, te
be seen at Mr. Chapman’s Sale Rooms, and at the Auctiou
Mart, King-street,
IN ALL NINETEEN LOTS,
SITUATED IN GEORGE AND HUNTER STRF.F.TS,
and Little George and Little Hunter Streets , towards the Tank
Stream, in direct
APPROACH TO PITT-S T R E E T ,
(ds noticed in the Government Gazette,)
TO THE
NEW CIRCULAR WHARF AND CUSTOM HOUSE,
FOR S£Llcll BY XVXZI. STUBBS,
On the Premises, by Public Auction, TO-MORROW, the
24th January, 1845,
Sale to commence at Twelve o'clock precisely.
29 6
” Hunter-st .
PARTICULARS. Frontages,
more or less.
Lot I.— -Building allotment in Little George-street,
with a back entrance to lane in the rear of Mr.
Andrews, saddler, Hunter-street 12 7
Lot 2. Corner allotment, frontage to Little\ 14 o
George-street, back of Mr. Whit- ( Little Geo.-st.
bread’s, the butcher, in Hunter-street.
A back lane of 6 feet gives access for
taking in wood.
*** This may be reckoned a 3 a capital site
for “ a baker,” having the convenience of a
never-failing pump of water jointly with No. 1.
Lot 3.-—A house in Little Hunter-street, let to Mr.
Thorne, Shoemaker, back lane entrance as N 0.2. 17 0
Lot 4.—A house (corner lot) in Little Hunter-street,
let to Mr. M'Hugh, at Bs. per week. This lot
also has 25 feet 7 inches to Little George-street. 15 4
• f.'T’ ater ‘^ s of house and premises in Little George-street
will be sold separately.
Lots 5 to 7.—Three building allotments, with frontages
to Little George-street, each 17 y
'lhese also have back lane frontages.
Lot B.—Building allotment, frontage to Little George
street 8 17 a
To Tank Stream $


Lot 9. —Building allotment, frontage to Little George
street 14 0
Lot. 10.— House, let to Mr. Smith at 7s. per week,
frontage to Little George-street 26 0
Lot 11. —House, let to Mr. Connor at 7s. per week,
frontage to Little George-street 17 6
Lot 12. —House, let to Mr. Dunham, frontage to Little
George-street 19 8
I,or 13.—The old Australian Printing Office, with
double frontage, let at £52 per annum, frontage
to Little George-street t 2 7
To Little Hunter-street 36 0
Lot 14. —Building corner allotment, adjoining the
City Sale Room property, frontage to Little
George-street *. 21 0
Frontage to Little Hunter-street Lane 36 0
Perhaps a better spot for a merchant could not be
selected than this. The counting-house could be built imme-
diately looking into Hunter-Street, and there is plenty of room
for stores.
IN HUNTER-STREET.
Lot 15.—Corner dwelling-house and shop, now let to
Mr. Whitbread at £9l per annum. This pro-
perty has frontage to Hunter-street 13 0
To Little Hunter-street with right of back
passage 55 10
N.B. —These allotments and premises will be sold on the
ground first, immediately after which the company will be re-
quested to adjourn to the Sale Room, where the George-street
properties will be sold in the following order, viz.: —
Lot .—MR. ALDIS’S, No. 306, GEORGE-STREET.
This important and valuable City freehold is too well known,
both here and abroad, to require much further description than
what is sufficient to show the moneyed man what a Valuable
rental he puts in hie pocket every month in return for his
purchase ; and how complete and compact the property is,
both for domestic requirements and every purpose of good
money making business.
THE LARGE SHOP
in front, (or rather as the world have it, “ Aldis’s Divan
Saloon,”) occupies the whole front, and has a large entrance
door at either end. The cellarage or basement floor is most
spacious, and leads under the premises to George-street for
receiving or delivering goods. There is the tobacco, snuff,
and import stores,— (Vide Aldis's advertisement of the 14 th
January instant) —offices, and premises for carrying on any
extent of trade ; added to which, is the carriage entrance to
Little George-street.
THE HOUSE,
Has two parlours on the ground floor, drawing-room in front,
and parlour; two back rooms, with a very large bed-room,
newly built, with corridor entrance. The kitchen is also a
part of the new building lately erected, and is in every point
of view completely domestic and convenient. The stabling,
coach-house, and paved yard, is admirably combined with
many well arranged plans and accommodations. The new or
additional part of the house and stabling is all slated, and
nothing is wanted for cleanliness and health’s sake, even to a
very large barrel drain, which carries off the superfluous and
waste water into the Tank Stream.
There is a most cheerful view from the upstairs rooms,
overlooking the Barrack-square, and not the less desirable
from the refreshing breeze which necessarily regulates the
health of children, and the amusements derived from the
always going on there.
w. H. Chapman’s, Esq., in George-street.
THIS PROPERTY AS IT IS.
Two certain results, regarding its intrinsic value, are imme-
diately arrived at, whatever cyphering may make it, besides: —
First, “ that the ground already built on obviously yields
annually an income, in magnitude and certainty, not to be realised
upon any other scheme of investment; and, secondly, that the
unoccupied portion can be built upon at nearly half former
prices ,’ which brings this part just as valuable as the other.” So
that the whole is unexceptionable ; and there are plenty of moneyed
men in Sydney who know this kind of arithmetic well, and also
the truth of the valuation, which amounts to this •that this of
Mr. Chapman's cannot be compromised in comparison by any
other man's in the whole city. That is the fact.
Of Mr. Chapman’s Establishment.
The Commission and Public Sale Room takes in it a por-
tion of the “ newly-built stack of three-floored stores, ’ and
extends from George-street (to the wool-sorting “floor” at
the rear)-some 86 feet, by proportionate width and loftiness
of room. .
This immense room is well corresponded by
THREE LARGE STORAGE DEPARTMENTS,
or cellarage stores, underneath, for depositing eargo, having
opening to George-street, besides an additional one at the
eastern division of great size, strength, and security, well
adapted for the care and safety of “China” silks, “India”
and other fine goods. Above this (2nd floor) is another
equally valuable for show goods—or room for valuing samples
and piece goods, and stowing lighter merchandise. This
store overlooks the Domain, new Custom House, Shipping, &c.
Above this again, is another extensive floor, which may
serve well for light goods, as millinery, hats, &c.
P.S.—Each floor has double crane doors, like the East
India warehouses in Lime-street.
Adjoining this part of the premises is THE WOOL SHED,
having therein set two boilers ready fixed, fire place, &c. : the
yard is all enclosed in by high plank boards.
THE DWELLING HOUSE
contains excellent drawing-room, entrance parlour, and five
bed-rooms; some pleasantly overlooking the Barrack Square,
others the North Shore and parts of Sydney.
The kitchen is the most perfect model of its kind, and the
court yard is all smooth-paved, with gratings to carry off all
waste water into an under barrelled drain, drenching off every
superfluity or nuisance to the Tank Stream.
It ought to be borne in mind that the whole Premises,
House, Stores, &c., are in the completes!, cleanest, and neatest
order possible, and state of repair. And as it is impossible to
do ample justice to the comfort, convenience, to all and every
part of this vast establishment —it may be asked “if the best
of stone, brick, timber, workmanship and materials (added
thereto the no inconsiderable recent expenditure of £4,000 to
render everything unexceptionably incomparable) if this really
be any scale by which the value or estimate of a property can
“be proceeded upon to sale,” “ then indeed, this Property of
Mr. Chapman’s—by itself alone, must be held a sufficient
handsome fortune for any man on earth.
p s.—Parties wishing to see these premises, or any other
portion of this estate, will find a person at Mr. Chapman s
always on the spot in attendance.
The next valuable lot is No. 18,
occupied by Mr. Barnett, No. 310, at a rent of £ll7 per
annum only.
This is another of those invaluable George-street shops that
takes “ the lead” in the way of a fashionable (and yet moderate)
jeweller’s and watchmaker’s.
IT comprises—
A capital dwelling-house, with shop in front, and parlour with
drawing room
up stairs, . .
overlooking the Barrack-square, with bed-room edjoining.-j-
There is a good newly erected brick kitchen, two cel.ars lead-
ing to George-street, and back yard to Little George-street.
THE LAST OF GEORGE-STREET.
Lot 19. .
Adjoining the City Sale Rooms, and let to Mr. Lublin, Military
and Naval Cap Manufacturer, at £ll7 per annum.
having
good kitchen and stores, shop in George-street, with parlour
hind, and two capital rooms up stairs, overlooking the
irracks. , . . ~
P.S.—Both this and No. 310 have the exclusive right ot a
imp jointly between them, as a right to their premises.
[t3- Supposing any party, having a just view of the va
lots 18 and 19 together, should wish to take one or both,
r. Chapman has instructed the auctioneer so to accommoda
OnThe vaTue of both these properties much might he said
T y truly, but they are so well known for trade and custom
at it seems best to let the remaining description till the hour
TERMS. , 5
wenty-five per cent, cash deposit on the fall of the hammer
25 per cent, at six months ; . t
50 per cent, at twelve months, bearing interest at ten p
BilirtobTdSed from the 27th instant, from which date the
■nt will be receivable by the purchaser.
NOTE.
The title is an absolute grant from the Crown to the pi °-
-ietor, and has never been out of the family ever since the
undation of the colony.
