

COLONIAL LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
“ NON TV A TE MOVEANT, 3Bi> PUBLICA. YOTA."
Vol. 11. No. 36.;
SYDNEY, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1845.
[Price 4d.
DECISION OF CHARACTER.
VIII
Tag second distinguishing characteristic which we
have noted of a decisive character, is punctuality.
This virtue —for so it may be justly designated—is
most important to the efficient working of society,
.and, by a commercial community, more especially, it
must always be deemed a virtue of increasing neces-
sity and importance. “ Method is the very hinge of
business* and there is no method without punctuality.”
To the man of business, therefore * time is *the same
as money ; and if any one deprive him of a part of
it, or cause him to misuse it, the same offence is com-
mitted towards him —as far as loss of property is
concerned—as if his goods were abstracted, or a false
cheque passed at his bankers. To him, the result is
the same, whether a certain actual sum be taken from
him, or the minutes in which he could earn that sum ;
for, to many, their time is equal to a capital of no
ordinary amount, and the loss of it may prove irre-
parable. Appointments, indeed, become debts. 4 1
owe you punctuality, if I have made an appointment
with voii, and have no right to throw away your time,
if I do my own.'
Punctuality is also highly important, because it
subserves the peace and temper of a family; and the
want of it not only infringes on necessary duty, but
sometimes excludes that duty. The calmness of mind
which it produces is another advantage of punctuality :
a disorderly man is always in a hurry ; he has no
time to speak with you, because he is going else-
where ; and when he gets there, he is too late for his
business, or he must hurry away to another before he
can finish it. Punctuality, again, gives weight to
character. ‘ Such a man has made an appointment—
then I know he will keep it.* And this generates
punctuality in others ; for, like similar virtues, it pro-
pagates itself. A whole establishment must become
punctual where the head of it is noted for that quality.
Though the want of punctuality may chiefly arise
from mere thoughtlessness, we may assert that a man
of sound moral principle will never be otherwise than
a punctual man, It is, in reality, as easy to be punc-
tual as the reverse, if we only desire to be so. There
can be no absolute difficulty in reaching a place of
appointment at the exact hour if we only truly desire
to be present at the exact hour. Habits of reflection
and attention to the progress of time are the only
requisites for punctuality in appointments. We see
the man who is not punctual tb his business engage-
ments invariably lose caste. His affairs fall into
disorder, and speedy ruin is the result; and when we
consider the inconveniences attending a want of
punctuality as regards appointments, the practice does
l not deserve to be less reprobated, for the one is
| generally the forerunner of the other.
Every man of correct mind and steady regular
j habits will take care that he performs the lesser but
imperative duties of punctuality. He will act upon
principle in this as in every other thing. On the
contrary, when we see a man habitually neglect them,
we may be certain that he is a person of little actual
principle. The tradesman or mechanic who unhe-
sitatingly promises the punctual performance of what
he neither expects nor intends punctually to perform,
(a practice, alas, but too universal, and, therefore,
indulged) proves this, and proves also that he cares
little for the feelings or interests of hi 9 fellow- creatures.
The injustice and cruelty of this habit is apparent.
No advantage accrues therefrom to the one, while the
other is probably suffering under much inconvenience
and real discomfort. This failing is of universal
extent, and is practised among all classes of society.
Employers and employees —masters and servants, are
but too frequently mutually guilty. We have all
occasionally to attend to duties in which the interests
of others, perhaps poorer than ourselves, ore concerned,
and for the performance of which, at or within a cer-
tain time, we have passed our word. How often are
such duties neglected, too often to the extreme mor-
tification and injury of others, when in truth we
might as easily have accomplished them as left them
unaccomplished, if we had hut exercised a slight
degree of energy and attention. As long, however,
as there are thoughtless and irrational men in the
world, there will probably be a want of punctuality ;
and the wise and well-principled must remain content
to place it among the many temporal losses which
they sustain in connexion with their weaker brethren.
It is vain, perhaps, to hope by any means to advance
mankind greatly in any single virtue. Every one,
however, must be able to discern that which is right
or wrong, convenient or inconvenient, advantageous
or disadvantageous. To. attend to such duties as the
above, will surely appear very obviously as right and
convenient and advantageous, while the neglect of
them will appear in every respect as the opposite ; and
the reason of man will not allow him, if he fully con-
sider the subject, to take any other than the former
course. It is right (pursues a writer on this subject)
to attend to such duties, because we have pledged
ourselves to attend to them, and the happiness
of a fellow-creature depends on our redeeming our


pledge. It is convenient even to ourselves, because
there is positively less trouble in attending to the
duties in time, than out of it. It is advantageous
every way, as it must always be to do that which is
right instead of that which is wrong. The conscien-
tious reflector on these things can surely want no
further inducement to a constant practice of the virtue
of punctuality.
We conclude this portion of our subject with the
following anecdote illustrative of the importance of
punctuality in a moral point of view : —“ Dr. Parr, the
late great oracle in Greek erudition, was remarkable
for punctuality. The habits of this eminently learned
man were favourable both to long life and literary
occupations. Tama six o’clock man,' he used to
say when in the seventy-sixth year of his age. The
time he thus gained in the morning was devoted to
study, and the rest of the day to various duties which
had claims upon his time. In his engagements he
was strictly punctual, and exacted the same punctuality
in return. By this means he was able to transact a
prodigious quantity of business, and to give advice
and still more important assistance to the numbers
who applied to him. He considered a breach of the
rules of punctuality as no small violation of morality.
‘ Sir,’ said he to a friend of the writer, who was beyond
his hour of appointment, and who was begging the
doctor’s pardon for his omission, * beg pardon of a
higher Power; for a breach of an appointment is a
breach of promise, and a breach of promise is a great
moral offence.’ H
THE BRICKMAKER.
Brickmarino Is the art of forming and manufacturing bricks.
The earliest mention of bricks is to be found in the histo-
rical books of the Old Testament, where we find that the de-
scendants of Noah departed from the eastward and travelled
into the land of Shinar. —“And they said to one another, go
to, and let us make brick, and burn them thoroughly ; and
they had brick for stone, and slime had they for mortar,”—
Whether these bricks were really exposed to the action of fire,
as the passage seems to imply, or merely dried in the sun, is a
point by no means settled ; but according to the testimony of
Herodotus, who was upon the spot, the brieks which composed
the tower of Babylon, were baked in furnaces. That unbumt
bricks were also employed in the earliest buildings appear
certain, from the testimony of some of the oldest historians, j
and from proofs still existing.
Unburnt bricks were used in Egypt; the making of them j
was one of the tasks imposed on the Israelites during their j
servitude in that country ; but the oldest edifices which at j
present remain there are principally of stone. At what time
burnt bricks were first introduced, or in what country, cannot
be determined ; the Greeks were certainly acquainted with
the art of burning bricks, as appears from Vitruvius, who in-
stances several buildings in which this material was used, and
both sun-dried and burnt,
The business of a brick-maker is carried on the open fields,
and its operation may be 6een in the neighbourhood of most
large towns, The art, in almost all its branches, is regulated
by different acts of parliament; and bricks may be made of
pure clay, or clay mixed in certain proportions with sand or
ashes.
The clay is first moistened, and tempered with water, either
by the feet, or by means of a machine or mill worked with one j
or more horses.
When it is fit for moulding into bricks, several persons are j
usually, in the neighbourhood of London, employed upon the
business of a single brick ; these are cal ed gangs ; they con-
sist of one or two men. a woman, and two children, to each of
which is assigned a different department in the occupation.
A gang in full work will make many thousand bricks in a day*
While moulding the clay into the shape of a brick; the
workman stands under a sort of thatched cover to keep off the
sun and the rain ; on the board before him are all his imple-
| merits, the mould into which the clay is put, the clay itself,
j which is brought to him by another person, a vessel with some
j water, and a little heap of sand, and the rule with which he
takes off the superfluous clay from the mould.
The Inside of the box or mould is exactly the shape and
j size of a brick ; the workman throws the clay into this with
| some violence, having first seattered a little sand about the
sides of it; and then scraping off the superfluous clay, he
turns up the mould on one side, and placing a small board at
the bottom of the mould, shakes out the brick and plaees it
down in order to be placed by another person on the barrow,
which, when loaded with about twenty bricks, is wheeled
! away, and the bricks are packed upon their edges by the assis-
tance of the boards, which, wheh drawn from them, leave
sufficient space for the air to circulate between them to dry
them. W hen the pile is made of the proper height, generally
three or four feet from the ground, they are covered with long
straw or tiles, so that they may dry gradually without being-
exposed to the direct rays of the sun, which would crack them ;
or to heavy rains which would also be injurious to them. As
soon as they are sufficiently dry for the purpose, they are to be
burnt in a kiln. Here great art is required in piling the brieks,
so that the fire may circulate through every course and in all
| directions-- Brees, that is, small cinders from sea-coal, is the
fuel commonly used in burning bricks, and when onee well
lighted, it will keep burning for several days, till the bricks
are completely finished.
Bricks when finished are of different colours, according to
the clay of whloh they are made, but they must be all of one
size; namely, nine inches long, four inches arul a half broad,
and two inches and a half thick.
A gang of brick-maksrs will earn a handsome living; some-
times it happens that the whole gang consists of branches of
the same family, as the father and mother, and four or five
ohildren of different ages ; but they work many hours, and
their labour is very hard.
In connection with the trade of brickmaking, we must
notice the manufacture of tiles, whleh is a sort of thin brick,
made use of in the roofing of houses, and also, when some-
thing thicker, for the purposes of paving. Those for covering
the roofs of houses are of different shapes, according to the
uses for which they are intended, there are plain tiles, ridge-
tiles, gutter-tiles, pan-tiles, &c., they are all made according
to certain gauges ; and the makers are subject to heavy pen-
alties if their tiles exceed the dimensions fixed on by the
several acts of parliament. The kilns in which these tiles
are burnt, are large conical buildings; in these the tiles are
piled from the bottom to the top before the fire is lighted.
Dutch clinkers are imported into England for the purposes
of paving; they are long narrow bricks of a brimstone colour,
very hard and well burnt, so as nearly to be vitrified.
Flemish or Dutch tiles, which are glazed and painted, were
formerly much used for chimney jambs. Some fifty years
ago it was not uncommon to see a complete scripture history,
and other curious devices, in a parlour fire-place.
There is also an article, made of clay and sea sand, and
slightly baked, well known as scouring bricks.
Thb Founder of Rome.*—An auctioneer, putting up an
antique Roman helmet for sale, told the company he was in-
formed that it had belonged to Romulus, the founder; but
whether he was an iron or a braes founder he could not tell!


COLONIAL LITERATURE.
[For the Colonial Literary /oumal.]
But we have no colonial literature, nor do I see
any materials from which a literature purely colonial
could be raised.”
“ I wish you would abolish the use of the word
“ Colonial” at any rate with regard to literature, and
call it either “ Australian” or “ Natioual.” Depend
upon it that Australia will never be more than a cipher
among the nations, until her sons assume to them-
selves national characteristics, and proudly stamp
them by the pen to be acknowledged and admired by
the world!”
“ All very good,—but no answer to my position,
that both literature and the materials for forming it
are wanting to Australia.”
Such was the commencement of a conversation un-
intentionally heard, while sauntering on the Circular
Wharf, at a time when no incentive beyond that offered
by cool breezes, rippling waves, fleecy clouds, merry
seamen, richly laden barques, lightly freighted yachts,
dashing oars, distant woods, rocks, trees, and flowers
had led me forth for the refreshment of both body
and spirit.
What accident had begun, curiosity, aided by a
desire to avail myself of any information regarding
so interesting a subject, prompted me to continue,
and without appearing to do so, I held the same course
with the disputants, who, mounting the steps at the
end of the quay, led me into the Domain, where, seated
in a rocky nook, they continued their conversation.
I could not but regret the unsparing use, that had
been made of the tomahawk and pruning knife, for
where it had been easy a year or two back to have sat
down within a few feet of any person quite unsuspected,
I was obliged to have recoursa to riLse in order to seat
myself within earshot, unobserved by my friends : after
trying from several points to gain a favourable view of
the Adrastus, at anchor in the stream, a seat slightly
removed and in part hidden by a ledge of rock, offered
me the opportunity of working very busily on the
pages that serve me as a waste book for views, notes,
incidents, and events, while I could catch some por-
tions of what was said.
“ You contend well for your country, and I applaud
you for it, but until supported by better evidence than
even your assertion, I still hold out,”
“ Little has yet appeared, I grant you, to warrant
tne high ground I have chosen to take in this argu-
ment ; yet of what has been published, so great a
OTgrWm is really good, that I cannot help repeating,
taaVWfth the same amount of talent, to say nothing
of any addition, a literature might be formed, distinct-
ively and strikingly Australian ! and as for material!
whence the material of American literature ? In the
woods, and prairies, on the rivers, and lakes. Among
the red Indians and snowy mountains, ay, and in the
city too, in the drawing room, in the counting house,
in tie cottage, and in the hall! If anything be wanted
here, his the men and not the matter, nor do I be-
lieve that even they are absent, but that if the Aus-
tralians as a nation, would cherish and be proud of
literature as of national and not of European charac-
ter and interest—a Fenimore Cooper, a Washington
Irving, a Channmg, a Franklin, and a Willis, would
soon spring up in our midst to spread a halo over Aus-
ra seizing each im his own manner on the
materials presented in the town, in the bush, among
sheep stations, homesteads, squatters, blhckfellows,
kangaroos or parrots ; among seamen or landsmen,
native-born or emigrant, military,naval, or civilian !”
M Well, if I listen much longer, you will fairly run
me down.”
“ If I am earnest, I am warranted in being so, and
if you have patience, I will illustrate by passages from
writers that have been, what I have ventured to assert
concerning those that may be, I had almost said those
that will be .'—Thompson and Harper, the first of
Australian poets, are the first I will refer to,—Hear
Thompson’s description of the village where he was
educated:—
M ‘ Fair Castlereagh ! I trace thy landscape round,
Each well-known spot to me is sacred ground;
In every mead—in every bower or tree,
Some dear companion—some old friend I see ;
The myrtle grove that skirts thy sloping sides’
And the tall summit from the plain divides,
The rich acacias waving o’er the rill
That pours its scanty streams beneath the hHI,
Thy spreading vale—but here let mem’ry lax
The rude invasions of the spoiling axe,
That chas’d the Dryads from th’ affrighted glade,
And lopp’d each shrub that once composed the shade.
Thus art extends her civilizing reign,
Bows the tall wood and casts it on the plain—
Drives nature’s beauties from their seats away,
And plants a train less lovely far than they;
Tho landscape shines beneath a borrowed'hue,
But graceless more, and different from the true.'
w His eulogy on Macquarie, if I can remember it, I
will repeat :• —
Macquarie ; candid, generous, noble, free,
All 'neath perfection, blended, 6hine in thee’:
Thou, when the hapless widow pin’d for bread,
Shed bounty o’er, and raised her drooping head;
When affluence spurned the beggar from his door,
Cheer’d by thy smiles he felt no longer poor;
The orphan child, whose supplicating tongue
Crav’d scanty pittance of th’ unbending throng,
His artless tale despised, or disbelieved,
Asked but of thee, was pitied and relieved.
Did misr’y to thy door a victim send ?
Thy willing influence proved a saving friend ;
Large were thy means, yet far beneath thy will,
Here praise must cease, for language here stands still!’
M Twenty years ago the anniversary was welcomed
with an ode not unworthy the spring times of poetry
—opening thus :
“ ‘ Strike, strike the bold convivial lyre'!
Let lofty Pceans wake the soul!
Let ivied bands each heart entwine
In one harmonious whole !
Fill, fill the goblet high !
The full libation pour !
"Why should decrepid care intrude,-
When Bacchus rules the hour ?
E'en age resigns his cynic rod,
And smiling, owns the potent god,
With dropping clusters crown’d ;
The jovial hours their pinions hide,
And unregarded swiftly glide
When bumpers flow around !’
“Harper in his closing stanza of the song addressed
to the Lyre of Australia, is almost prophetic—
With her green forests around me, above—her blue sky,
I see in thy-measures some national dream ;
And I find that the notes, though unstudied, are high,
When the glory of future Australia’s the theme !
And ever this lay, to her eons and her daughters,
Should breathe of the land where the evergreen grows—
To men’s souls like a strong wind which swelleth the waters,
To the heart, like a spring- breeze that opens the rose.’


“ Who can read his song for the spring without
feeling joyou» ?
“ ‘ The mimosas are blooming,
For summer is coming,
I felt her warm breath in the forest to-day,
Where the river is streaming,
And nature lies dreaming
Of new love and beauty—come dearest away !
Like passion’s first feeling,
Its joy half concealing,
In each green nook some rare flower is blooming for thee ;
Where, as infancy clinging,
The woodbine is ringing
All wildly the boughs of the kerrigong tree.’ ”
“In prose I will only quote * Martin’ as the first
who ventured upon a volume at all approaching to
nationality—and will repeat as nearly as I may, a de-
scriptive passage in his sketch of Botany Bay.
“ ‘ The broad bosom of the deep, placid as a sleep-
ing infant, without a ruffle on its surface, without a
breath of wind to agitate it, reflecting the morning
sun with scrupulous exactness, unbroken and undis-
torted ; the balmy freshness of the atmosphere ; the
dewy fragrance of the shrubs around ; the solemn
stillness of the place ; and the harmony of every
surrounding object—were circumstances sufficient to
captivate the attention of the least sensitive indivi-
dual, and cause the most vitiated and artificial taste to
acknowledge the genuine majesty of nature !’
“ His apostrophe regarding the listlessness of Aus-
tralian youth to objects of national interest, will just
suit us now :
“ * Is it ever to be the case,’ he writes, * that the
sordid desire of accumulating wealth, should occupy
the whole attention of our youth, and blunt those
finer feelings which set off and give an air of elegance
and dignity to the most, rigid particles of our nature ?
Perish the thought! a more refined and a more
intelligent race of individuals are now rapidly rising
up amongst us, and will shortly emerge from the vale
of youth, and take their destined places, in full and
vigorous maturity, among the ranks of their fellow
citizens and their countrymen.’ I could multiply
quotations from these same writers, or from others not
less noble as the pioneers to literature in Australia, but
I think I have recited quite enough to prove that
talent has been in Australia. —Talent is here yet, and
it needs but the spur to rouse Australians to exertion,
and my position will be fully upheld, that neither
materials nor men are wanting to stamp Australian lite-
rature as among the national literature of the world!”
Having finished my sketch, I rose and departed,
resolving to repeat my visit to the same spot, in the
hope of learning something further concerning Austra-
lian national literature.
»■
[We shall be glad to see this subject receive the further
consideration of our correspondents. There are, we believe,
some few native writers in the colony both willing and capable
to command attention; but, is the Australian taste for litera-
ture as yet sufficiently general, and to be depended upon for
support, by a writer of merit? In connexion with these re-
marks, see an extract in another portion of this day’s Journal,
entitled “Literary Toils.”—Ed. C. L. J.
A secret is like silence—you cannot talk about it and keep
it; it is like money—when once you know there is any con-
cealed it is half discovered. “My dear Murphy,” seid an
Irishman to his friend, “ why did you betray the secret that I
told you t”—“ Is it betraying you call it ? Sure, when I found
I was’nt able to keep it myself, did’nt I do well to tell it to
somebody that could !”
THE ACORN.
AN APOLOGUE:
BY J. MONTGOMERY.
“ Thou wast a bauble once ; —a cup and ball,
Which babes might play with ;
Time was, when, settling on thy leaf, a fly.
Could shake thee to the root!—and time has been,
When tempests could not.”
Cowper’s “ Yardley Oak.”
A high wind shook the last acorn from an old Oak.
In the following night, the tree itself was thrown
down by the tempest. It had lived through five cen-
turies ; but though in that period it had produced
millions of acorns, they had all been devoured by-
swine, or perished where they fell. Yet there was a
prophecy, nearly coeval with the deluge, in the family,
that from the fruit of this Oak there should spring a
mighty forest. Age after age the venerable tree, de-
clining in strength, and decaying from the core, till
the shell of the trunk, and a stunted branch bearing
six leaves and a single acorn, were all the insignia of
its ancient honours ; age after age the venerable tree
looked anxiously for tokens of the fulfilment of this
prediction, in the growth of some sapling from one
of its acorns. “ Hope deferred maketh the heart sick ;
but when the desire cometh, it is a tree of life.'* The
old Oak knew this ; and to the last moment of its
existence believing that He who had promised could
not fail to perform, it prayed, even as it lay prostrate
on the ground, that its orphan offspring, the sole
survivor of its stock, might in due time be quickened,
shoot up, and become the parent of a great family.
While it was praying, the sap ceased to circulate
through its rigid veins, and the old Oak died, lamented
by all the trees of the field. A hoary-headed man,
who appeared as far stricken in years as the tree
itself, though but an infant in comparison with it,
removed the relics, and built an hermitage of them in
a solitary corner of his grounds, whither he was
wont to retire for devotion, and where he was at
length found dead, in the attitude of prayer, with
the expression of hope full of immortality on hit
countenance.
The solitary Acorn had fallen into the deserted
nest of a field-mouse, and the gigantic trunk of its
progenitor, descending close by, crushed the turf over
its head, and buried it alive. In darkness, alone,
and immoveably wedged, the poor Acorn gave itself
over for lost: and yet it could not but remember how
merrily it had lived on the little bough that nourished
it, dancing in the breeze, drinking the dew, enjoying
the light; it could not hut remember the radiance of
the sun, the beauty of the moon, the multitude of the
stars, the verdure of the earth, the diversity of hill
and dale, the river rolling at the root of its aged'sire >
it could not but remember the sounds of winds, and
birds, and waters, the motions and colours of the
clouds, the forms, voices, and actions of men and
animals, which it had remarked during its nonage
above ; it could not but remember these, and remem-
ber them with regret, —regret, acuminated to despair,
in the apprehension that soon it must cease to hear,
and see, and feel for ever.
While the Acorn lay thus ruminating on its help-
lessness, insignificance, and misery, it heard, or thought
it heard, a voice from heaven saying to it “ Produce
an Oak !" —“ Produce an Oak /” repeated the Acorn
to itself; “ that's impossible ; no, it is not impossible ;
with God nothing is impossible ; and if he command#


me, I can do it, and I will do it.” The Acorn had
well learnt this lesson of faith from its parent, that
the Ruler of the universe always gives power to his
creatures to do what he requires of them.
Immediately through every nerve of its frame it
felt a spirit in motion ; and the germ between its
double kernel, though small enough to pass through
the eye of a needle,'received a consciousness, that a
whole tree —roots, bark, bole, branches, leaves, and
future fruit—lay folded, with exquisite minuteness,
in the fairy casket of its bulb. There was no self-
delusion in the Acorn ; it had humbled itself, and it
was about to be exalted. From that crisis, though
the shell and the kernels began to waste away, the
germ fed upon them f presently it swelled and put
forth fibres which insinuated themselves through the
soil to secure a permanent foot-hold. In spring there
appeared above-ground a tiny shoot; which opened
and presented
"two lobes protruding, pair’d exact.”
The new-sprung plant was lower than the blades
of grass that rose in myriads around, and looked
down contemptuously upon it as a stranger, whose
shape was uncouth, and whose language they did not
understand.
Hours, days, w£eks, months, passed swiftly away,
and so did the grasses, but the offspring of the Acorn
survived them all, and continued to grow till it
became a sprig, with two full-formed leaves, and a
hud between them, which tempted the bee and the
butterfly to alight on their way, while the grass-
hopper chirped at its foot, or skipped over its head ;
nay, so vigorously did it push forth on the right and
on the left, as well as upward, that the cowslip was
compelled to hang its blossoms awry to make room
for the sylvan intruder. Now year followed year, till
the sprig became a sapling, and one generation of
men died after another, while the sapling expanded
into an oak, and the oak advanced through two cen-
turies towards maturity. All this time the tree from
the Acorn hadpreserved its innocence and its humility;
though rooted in the earth, it aspired towards heaven ;
the nourishment which it drew from the soil, and the
river, and the atmosphere, it received as the bounty of
Providence, and it was thankful.
Meanwhile, the occasional lightnings played harm-
lessly around its head, and the tempest that agitated
it above, caused its roots to strike deeper below. Thus
flourished the Oak, the pride and the admiration of
the whole country. The birds roosted and sang
among its branches. The cattle chewed the cud, and
reposed under its shelter. The lambkins in April
ran races round the mount which its roots had
unheaved from the plain. Man approached it with
veneration, and as he lifted up his eye at so magni-
ficent a spectacle, he glanced beyond it to the sky, and
thought, “ How much glory can the Creator confer
on one of his inferior works ! How much of himself
may be seen even in a tree!”
But one thing was wanting to consummate its feli-
city ; the Oak was barren ; not an acorn had ever
glistened in a rough cup on the most luxuriant of its
boughs, though their foliage spread thick and beau-
tiful to the sun, and rustled musically in the breeze ;
and though autumn in its turn brought a second
spring of leaves, so delicately tinged, that they seemed
to be the blossoms of the first. Now it came to pass,
during a hard winter, that an old raven, driven by
stress of weather from the sea-coast, and travelling
far inland, alighted one clear cold morning on the
topmost twig of the Oak. Though stripped of its
summer-attire, the grace and majesty of its form were
the more striking in the fair proportions of its tall
stem and naked branches, here and there tufted with
brown clusters of dry leaves, of which now one, then
another, fell,
“ slowly circling through the waving air,"
to the ground, where thousands of their brethren lay
strewn at the feet of their parent, in all stages of
decay ; some brilliantly bespangled with pearls of
ice, and many so curiously pencilled with hoar-frost,
that every vein was distinguishable. The raven, who
was thin of plumage, and iron-grey with years,
looked as if he had seen better days, but would never
see such again. Age and adversity had soured his
disposition, if ever it had been good, so that he could
no longer behold happiness without envy, nor con-
template innocence without hankering to betray it;
for happiness he knew was inseparable from inno-
cence, and rarely, if ever, associated with guilt.
While he sat shivering in the tvind, that lifted up his
ragged feathers with every breath, his lank sides
exposed to the chaffinches and red-breasts that were
hopped on the lower boughs, peeping askance at the
stranger, wondering whence he came, and thinking
not a whit the less handsomely of themselves and their
gay plumage in comparison with him.
Now Ralph was a soothsayer, and many an evil
omen had he exhibited to the poor fishermen on the
coast where his haunt was ; soaring delighted in anti-
cipation of the storm, and preying when it was over
on the carcases of shipwrecked mariners. As he
understood all languages that were spoken in the day
of fable, he quickly entered into conversation with
the Oak, wormed out its whole history, and was saga-
cious enough to discover, what the tree itself scarcely
suspected, that innocent and happy as it was, secret
anxiety had begun to corrode its heart, lest, notwith-
standing its health, strength, and virtue, and not -
withstanding the ancient prophecy, it might at length
die without issue, there being little hope, after such
an age of sterility, that it would yet become fruitful.
The subtle raven caught his cue, and by a train of
sophistry, of which history has not furnished the par-
ticulars, he succeeded in persuading the Oak, that it
was such a favourite of Providence, that the course of
nature was suspended with respect to its destination,
and it was either governed by such a mysterious
heavenly influence, or had within itself such an
original power, that it could do or be whatever it
pleased : thus, instead of propagating its species by
acorns, it might continue to increase in bulk, in height,
in breath, in depth, in strength, in every thing, through
an illimitable period to come, till the heavens were
filled with its branches, and the earth overcanopied
with its verdure.
The Oak listened unsuspectingly to the tempter,
whose plausible insinuations soon perverted its sim-
plicity, and it began indeed to think, that all it was
it had made itself, and it had only to go on growing
for ever, by its own volition, to become as great and
as glorious as the raven had prognosticated. “ If,”
said the poor dupe within itself, “when I was an
acorn I wrought myself out of the ground, and have
since risen by my own choice to be the noblest tree
in the universe, why should f rest here, and not go on


to magnify my form, till my trunk towers above the
clouds, and sustains in mid-heaven a burthen of boughs
more numerous and ample than the forests on a thou-
sand hills ; thus in my own person accomplishing the
ancient prophecy, instead of dying, as my predeces-
sors have done, in the vain hope of leaving innumer-
able posterity V
Off flew the raven to the left hand, the moment his
blandishment had prevailed, and the innocence of his
victim had departed from it; leaving it to the indul-
gence of proud imaginations, and to the sad conse-
quences of its apostacy. Early in the succeeding spring,
at the first motion of the sap from the root, when the
noon-sun was warmly shining, the Oak heard the same
voice from heaven, which once called it out of the ker-
nel, saying now to it, “ Produce Acorns!” —“ Produce
Acorns!” indignantly it repeated “ No, I will produce
Oaks! my slenderest twig shall be a tree as mighty
and as ramified as I am myself at this hour.”—
Forthwith, as it fondly imagined, the vain boaster
began to exert its native energies, and to strain
through every fibre to enlarge its dimensions; but
its bulk remained the same as before ; it had reached
a standard which it never could exceed. Spring
vanished, summer followed, and autumn found the
Oak laden with—Acorns ! They were shaken to the
ground ; the swine devoured them ; none took root.
The Oak was mortified, and enraged, but not hum-
bled. “ I will do better,” it exclaimed, “ next year
and yet it scarcely believed itself, for there was a
strange misgiving in its mind, which it durst not
acknowledge, and feared to investigate.
The next year came, and the next year went. —
What clid the Oak ? In spite of itself it produced
Acorns as before, —but only to feed swine ; not a
single one was quickened. Still it would have har-
dened itself in rebellion against its Maker, but during
the first frosty night of the winter ensuing, it was
awakened by a pang at the core, as if an arrow had
glanced through it, and the wound had been instantly
healed. An arrow had passed through it, but the
wound was not healed ; it was the arrow of death,
and though the anguish at that moment was only
momentary, disease, decay, and dissolution had seized
upon its vitals, never to relinquish their prey till they
had consumed it atom by atom. The offender was
roused to reflection ; it was convinced at once of its
mortality and its guilt. Shame, remorse, and self-
abhorrence followed; the whole winter was a season
of humiliation ; till the Oak was contented to be
whatever its Creator had made it, and resigned to
suffer whatever his justice might hereafter inflict.
The next spring had far advanced, but long storms
and late frosts had retarded vegetation, when, with
the appearance of the first swallow, hope revisited the
heart of the penitent; and a few weeks afterwards,
while the nightingale was singing from a lowly bush
at its foot, a third time the Oak heard the voice from
heaven, more welcome than before, and sweeter than
all the sounds in creation beside, saying, “ Produce a
Forest!”—“ Thy will be done !" replied the humbled
tree ; and immediately it felt as if a curse had been
' taken away, and a blessing poured down upon its
head.
Ere long its buds unfolded into leaves, and in
autumn its branches were bowed with the weight of
fruit. Frequent and violent winds scattered the
acorns abroad as they ripened, and heavy rains
upon the adjacent hills, bringing dow 7 n the soil upon
them, or washing them into temporary channels, many
remained buried during the winter > and ere the
harvest of another autumn was ready to be shaken
from the boughs of the parent tree, a nursery of its
descendants was springing up in the neighbouring
fields. Year after year the fruits of the oak were
carried further, multiplied thicker, and rose higher,
over the face of the country, till, at the close of its
third century, it stood in the heart o§ the most flou-
rishing forest in the world, itself to the eye still in
fulness of vigour and beauty, and unrivalled by the
stateliest of its progeny, though the death-wound
received a hundred years before was invisibly under-
mining its strength, and hollowing its trunk.
About this time, the old raven, who still survived,
(and like the wandering Jew, it was said of him, that
he could neither die nor rest,) returned to that place ;
but his eye was so dim, and the scenery so changed,
that he knew it not again, till the Oak, amidst the
forest of its sons, saluted him as he flew languidly
over their heads. Ralph alighted on one of the arms
of his old acquaintance, and silently hearkened to the
sequel of its story ; at the close of which he fluttered
for a moment on his perch, then uttering an ominous
croak, fell headlong, and lay dead in the hollow of
one of the protuberant roots of the tree, which he
supposed had long ago been blasted by lightnings
or mildew, for exercising the presumption he had
taught it.
The Oak yet lived two hundred years ; its offspring
and their descendants to the fiftieth generation still
increasing and multiplying, to the east and the west,
to the north and the south, till the river, on whose
banks it stood, and which for thousands of years had
rolled in broad sunshine through a campaign of
meadows, became half-overshadowed with the kindred
branches that, on either side stretched to intermingle
their arms, but succeeded not entirely ; a line of light,
and a current of cool air passing uninterruptedly down
the middle of the stream, amidst the depth of the
surrounding woodlands. At length came the last
hour of the patriarch of trees. It fell not by the fury
of the wind like its father, nor by the assaults of the
axe, as thousands of its juniors had fallen before it;
but on a calm and golden summer-eve, just as the
sun went down, the Oak sunk to the earth, under the
silent weight of years, and at the gentle touch of
nature, loosening at once its whole burthen of infir-
mities ; it lay down so quietly to repose, that the
squirrel and her young, whose nest was in the hollow
of the fork, where the lowest branches diverged from
the bole, were undisturbed by the motion, and won-
dered next morning to find themselves so near the
ground. But the remains of the Oak were not left to
rot into dust and oblivion ; man knew their worth ;
he removed them, and wrought the knotted fragment
of the trunk, and the knee-timbers of the undecayed
boughs, into the flanks and the keel of a vessel, which!
afterwards circumnavigated the globe,
Here is a long fable ; where is the moral % Take
it in the words of the Swripture; they are so brief
that they might be written within the cup of the acorn,
and so important that t&ey ought to be engraven oa
the tablet of every heart:—“ God resisteth the proud,
but giveth grace unto the humble.”
Caution. —Never trust with a secret a married man whs
loves his wife, for he will tell her—and she will tell her sister,
and her sister will tell everybody.


THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF THE DRAMA IN
AUSTRALIA.
There are few episodes in the memoirs of nations mors in-
teresting than the tracing of the progress of theatrical repre-
sentations. The existence of the drama itself is coeval with
the civilization of the most polished nation of antiquity—the
Greeks; and it is deeply to be regretted that, wide and diver-
sified a 3 has been the character of modern literature, there
have been as yet no really successful traductions of the his-
trionic compositions of Sophocles or Euripides ; and this is
the more to be regretted, as every scholar will readily acknow-
ledge the Greek drama to possess claims of no eommon
brilliance and importance, at the same time that it affords
as perfect pictures of the manners and customs, the vices and
follies, of the ages they were designed to represent, as do the
palmiest productions of the Sheridans or the Moli&res of
later days. The comedy or the tragedy which two thousand
years since delighted the citizens of Athens, and afforded
relaxation to the cynics and peripatetics and academics of
antiquity, and even formed so important a feature In the creed
of earthly enjoyments held by the epicurean, would indeed be
a rich treat for the sated appetites of modern play-goers;—
and albeit it is to be hoped that so desirable an intellectual
banquet would not be relished the less, though It were served
up on the boards of our own Victoria 1 But we are digressing
from the tenor of regular proceeding which we had marked
out for ourselves, and with us wanderings from the main path
of our narrative are inexcusable, as ancient Pistol remarks,
“ it beseemeth wisdom well to speak pithily;” for, gentle
reader, we had taken it into our sapient head to chronicle for
your benefit, as well as for that of those who may hereafter
supplant your “ position i’ the ever-changing earth,” the rise
and progress of dramatic entertainments in Australia, or at
least in its capital, which, as far as matters of public nature
extend, go for much the same thing. We will now, therefore,
with your permission, as honest John Dory hath it, in the
immortal play of Wild Oats , “let you straightway into the
marrow of the thing.” In 1826, the first theatrical debUt
possessing any claims to regularity, took place in the Sydney
gaol—(we refer to the old building which for so many years
stood at the bottom of George-street). The stage and its
appurtenances were erected in the debtors’ room, and the
audience, consisting of a few cf the towns-people, made shift
to view the performance through the grating. Twenty-five
years since, however, theatricals were practised in an old loft
on the Brickfieid-hill, long since crumbled into dust. Not-
withstanding these attempts, be it understood, no really
licensed performances were enacted until December, 1832,
when a dispensation for such purposes, under the hand of his
Excellency Governor Darling, was accorded to Mr. B. Levey,
who immediately opened a small theatre in the saloon of the
old Royal Hotel, remarkable in those days of infant deco-
ration for its elegance and taste; the performances on the
occasion being Blaclc-eyed Susan and Monsieur Tonson. Mr.
Levey’s speculation succeeded, and considerable profits were
realised, the building being nightly erowded to excess for two
seasons: he then removed to a new and larger house, dignified
with the appellation of the “Theatre Royal, Sydney,” and
which, according to an authority of undoubted veracity on
such matters, was “ handsomely fitted up with a neat circle
of dress and private boxes, an upper tier, a galiery, and a
spacious pit, being altogether capable of drawing £l 3O a
night.” With time the infant and hastily organised corps
dramatique began to acquire experience, and that nameless
art which Sheridan used so aptly to call the “ knack of lead-
ing the spectators by the nose, while his eye and his ear are
at the same time entranced j” and in the meanwhile their
ranks were strengthened by the accession of new members.
Among those veteran individuals who have strutted and fretted
their hour "upon this stage, the ultimi Romanorum, are un-
doubtedly Messrs. Meredith, Simmons, and Knowles, each of
whom ha 3 in turn wielded the managerial sceptre. But the
two former of these gentlemen have for some time retired
from the profession, and the latter has but very lately jour-
neyed to “ that bourne from whence no traveller returns.”
He expired at Melbourne, in April, 1844, and it ia but just
in this short summary, while noticing one of the earliest "and
most distinguished members of the theatrical body, to pay a
passing tribute to the memory of an amiable and accom-
plished man. There are few who have been acquainted with
Mr. Conrad Knowles, in his private life, who will not readily
join with me in expressing regret for what may, to a certain
extent, be called his premature fate; while the great bulk of
his fcl'ew-citizens—they to whom he was known through the
medium of his exertions on the stage—will not easily forget
one whose name and standing is inseparable from the early
history of the Australian theatre.
In 1836, that commodious and elegant edifice, the Victoria
Theatre, was erected by Mr. Joseph Wyatt, and opened with
all the splendour usual on such solemn and interesting occa-
j sions—every soul in the establishment, from his eminence the
j manager himself down to the junior candle-snuffer, giving
j vent to the exhilaration of their feelings after the time-
i honoured modes of the dramatic world. The piece repve-
j sented was Othello, the part of the jealous blackamoor being,
to the best of our recollection, performed by Mr. Arabin,
another well-known M son of Thespis.” In 1842, a foreign
mountebank, of the name of Dalle Case, opened a second
theatre, in the shape of a pavilion, in Hunter-street, and
which, in addition to minor representations composed prin-
I cipally of furces and other small fry of the same genera, pre-
j sented the novelties of rope-dancing, tumbling, and equestrian
j exhibitions. This aoon died of a natural disorder common to
{ literary and dramatic undertakings, but was rapidly suc-
ceeded by the City Theatre, Market-street —a speculation
which, despite of the taste and pecuniary outlay expended on
its establishment, and the talent brought forward in its ulti-
mate support, is generally known to have been a total failure.
A visit to this elegant little place, which is still used for the
purposes of public meetings, will be amply sufficient to satisfy
the stranger as to the ability of our southern metropolis in
” bringing out” works connected with art and public amuse-
ment.
Our Sydney theatres have not been altogether barren in
the production of the original drama : from time to time
! various moreeam rof Australian manufacture have been enacted,
| and very lately a tragedy—yes, a real tragedy, and one of
( considerable merit into the bargain—has been submitted to
j the judgment of an Australian audience. In addition to
j whieb, two comic musical operas, from the lively and clever
pen of Mr. Charles Nagel, have also lent their aid to the
quota of our dramatic possessions. We are sorry to state that
for a very long period the taste of our play-goers has verged
into the melo-dramatic, or stronger still, the domestic-dramatic
vein, and the names of “ The Robber’s Wife,” “ Grace Clair-
ville,” “ Victorine,” “ Henrietta,” and a score other titles
emanating from the school of John Baldwin Buckstone,
Edward Eitzball, Benjamin Webster, and the hoc genus omne
of the playwrights of Cockaigne, may be daily seen em-
blazoned forth in all the splendour of red and blue inks on the
playbills of this city. Gentlest of readers, imagine not that
we are one of those rusty, grumbling, sexagenarian mortals
who call themselves sticklers for the legitimate drama; we
can enjoy a farce or a petite-comedy as well as any man in
existence; but “we like not your fooleries, gentle sirs, when
they sin against reason and common sensed,
j And now, having thus endeavoured to sketch an outline of
our progress in histrionic matters, and hoping that it has, in
the excellent words of the good Vicar of Wakefield, “ answered
the end it was made for,” we beg most respectfully and de-
ferentially to make our bow, with many and grateful tl anks
for your kind and at the same time (with your per-
mission) our scene.
D. D.
Varieties.
A Sea-Bull.—An Irishman who served on board a man-
of-war in the capacity of a waister, was selected by one of the
officers to haul in a tow-line of considerable length, which
was towing over the tafFrail- After drawing in forty or fifty
fathoms, which had put his patience, as well as every muscle
of his arms, severely to the proof, he muttered to himself,
“Sure, it’s as long as to day and to-morrow; it’s a good
week’s work for any five in the ship. Bad luck to the arm or
leg it’ll lave me at last. What! more of it yet! Och, mur-
der J the sea’s mighty deep, to be sure.” After continuing
in a similar strain, and conceiving there was little probability
of the completion of his labour, be suddenly .stopped short-,
and addressing the officer of the watch, exclaimed, “ Bad
manners to me, sir, if I don't think somebody's cut off the
other end of it.”
A Jonathan. —A nigger, afflicted with stammering, being
advised to take starch in order that he might be clearly under-
stood, took it in such large quantities that he became so stiff he
could neither get his hands into his pockets nor walk round a
corner, and was obliged to have his backbone taken out to get
his boots off,
Cradles are now called marriage fruit-baskets.”


The Moralist
VANITY.
iNcoNCTANCY is powerful in the heart of man; Pntemperance
swayeth it whither it will; despair engrossetb much of it; and
fear proclaimed, Behold, I sit unrivalled therein 1 but vanity
is beyond them all.
Wtep not, therefore, at the calamities of the human state ;
rather laugh at its follies. In the hands of the man addicted
to vanity, life is but the shadow of a dream.
The hero, the most renowned of human characters, what
is he but the bubble of this weakness l the public is unstable
and ungrateful ; why should the man of wisdom endanger
himself for fools ?
The man who neglecteth his present concerns, to revolve
how be will behave when greater, feedeth himself with wiiid,
while his bread is eaten by another.
Act as becometb thee in thy present station ; and in more
exalted ones thy face shall not be ashamed.
What blindeth the eye, or what hideth the heart of a man
from himself like vanity? lo ! when thou seest not thyself,
then others discover thee most plainly.
As the tulip that is gaudy without smell, conspicuous with-
out use ; so is the man who setteth himself on high, and hath
not merit.
The heart of the vain is troubled while it seetneth content;
his cares are greater than his pleasures.
His solicitude caunot rest with his bones; the grave is not
deep enough to hide it; he extendeth his thoughts beyond
his being ; he bespeaketh praise to he paid when he is gone .
but whoso promiseth it, deceived) him.
As the man that engageth his wife to remain in widowhood,
that she disturb not his soul ; so is he who expecteth that
praise shall reach his ears beneath the earth, or cherish his
heart in its shroud.
Do well while thou livest; but regard hot what is said of
it. Content thyself with deserving praise, and tby posterity
ihall rejoice in hearing it.
As the butterfly, who seeth not her own colours ; as the
jessamine which feeleth not the scent it casteth around: so is
the man that appeared) gay, and biddeth others to take
note of it.
To what purpose, said be, is my vesture of gold ? to vfhat
end are my tables filled with dainties, if no eye gaze upon j
them? if the world know it not? give thy raiment to the
naked, and thy food unto the hungry ; so shaltthou be praised,
and feel that thou deservest it.
Why bestowest thou on every man the Battery of unmeaning
words ? thou knowest when returned thee, thou regardest it
not. He knoweth he lieth unto thee ; yet he knoweth thou
wilt thank him for it. Speak in sincerity, and thou sbalt hear
with instruction.
The vain delighted) to speak of himself; but he seeth not
that others like not to hear him.
If he hath done any thing worth praise, if he possess that
which is worthy of admiration, his joy is to proclaim it, his
pride is to hear it reported. The desire of such a man defeat-
eth itself. Men say not, Behold, he hath done it: or, See, he
possesseth it: but, Mark how proud he is of it ?
The heart of man cannot attend at once to many things.
He who fixeth bis soul on show, loseth reality. He pursued)
bubbles which soon break, while be treads to earth what would
do him honour.
MORAL MAXIMS.
ALPHABETICALLY ABBASO6D.
No. S 6.
Comply cheerfully where necessity enjoins.
Comply with no vicious desire, however secret its perform-
ance.
Comprehend not few things in many words, but many
things in few words.
Concealing faults is but adding to them.
Conceal not thy faults, nor gloss them over, but obliterate
them by repentance.
Concession is no humiliation, nor admission of error any
disgrace.
Conciliatory manners command esteem.
Condemn vice ; but while you condemn, forget not to avoid it.
Condescend to compliance, rather than continue an augry
dispute.
Conduct and courage lead to honour.
Confession of a fault makes half amends for it.
Confidence is the companion of success.
Select Poetry.
THE EMIGRANT.
A PRIZE POEM,
BT MRS. SIGOURNEY, OF HARTFORD, AMERICA.
Amid those forest shades that proudly rear’d
Their unshorn beauty toward the favouring skies,
An axe rang sharply. There with vigorous arm
Wrought a bold emigrant, while by his side
His li le son, with question and response,
Beguiled the toil.
"■ Boy, thou hast never seen
Such glorious trees ; and.when their giant trunks
Fall, how the firm earth gi’oans'. Rememberest thou
The mighty river on whose breast we sailed
So many days on toward the setting sun ?
Compared to that, our own Connecticut
la but a creeping stream."
“ Father, the brook
That by our door went singing, when I launched
My tiny boat, with all the sportive boys,
When school was o’er, is dearer far to me
Than all those deep broad waters. To my eye
They are as strangers. And those little trees
My mother planted in the garden-bound
Of our first home, from whence the fragrant peach
Fell in the ripening gold, was fairer, sure,
Than this dark forest, shutting out the day."
“ What, ho ! my little girl,"—'and with light step
A fairy creature hasted toward her sire,
And setting down the basket that contained
The noon’s repast, looked upward to his face
With sweet, confiding smile,
“ See, dearest, see
Yon bright-wing’d parroquet, and hear the song
Of the gay red-bird echoing through the trees,
Making rich music. Didst thou ever hear
In far New-England such a mellow tone ?’*
« I had a robin that did take the crumbs
Each night and morning, and his chirping voice
Did make me joyful as I went to tend
My snow drops. \ was always laughing there,
In that first home. I should be happier now,
Methinks, if I could find among these dells
The same fresh violets,"
Slow Night drew on,
And round the rude hut of the emigrant
The wrathful spirit of the autumn storm
Spake bitter things. His wearied children slept,
And he, with head declin’d, sat listening long
To the swoln waters of the Illinois,
Dashing against their shores. Starting, he spake—
“ Wife !—did I see thee brush away a tear?—
Say, was it so? Thy heart was with the halls
Of thy nativity. Their sparkling lights
Carpets and sofas, and admiring guests
Befit thee better than these rugged walls
Of shapeless logs, and this lone hermit-home. 1 '
No—no ! —All was so still around, methouglu
Upon my ear that echoed hymn did steal
Which ’mid the church where erst we paid our vows
So tuneful pealed. But tenderly thy voice
Dissolved the illusion." -And the gentle smile
Lighting her brow, —the fond caress that sooth d
Her waking infant, reassur’d his soul
That wheresoe’er the pure affections dwell,
And strike a healthful root, is happiness.
. -—Placid and grateful to his vest he sank,—
But dreams, those wild magicians, which do play
Buck pranks when Reason slumbers, tireless wrought
Their will with him. Up rose the busy mart
Of his own native city, —roof and spire
All glittering bright in Fancy’s frost-work ray.
Forth came remember’d forms —with curving neck
The steed his boyhood nurtur’d, proudly neigh d
The favoured dog, exulting round his feet
Frisk’d with shrill, joyous bark—familiar doors
Flew open—greeting hands with his were link’d
lu Friendship’s grasp—he heard the keen debate
From congregated haunts, where mind with mind
Doth blend .and brighten—and till morning rov tl
'Mid the lov’d scenery of his father-land.


Moticz to (JornsporTfenta.
“ Australian Fables, No. 4,” is received,
“ H.V' letter afforded us much gratification ; the accompanying
contributions mil be inserted. The former two letters are
lying at the office, for the writer's consideration.
CATALLACTICS.
[continued.]
To resume, Liebig says *.
If we knew with certainty that there existed a
substance capable alone of nourishing a plant and of
bringing it to maturity, we might be led to a know-
ledge of the conditions necessary to the life of all
plants, by studying its characters and composition. If
humus were such a substance it would have precisely
the same value as the only single food which nature
has produced for animal organization, namely, milk.
The constituents of milk are cheese or caseine, a com-
pound containing nitrogen in large proportion ; but-
ter, in which hydrogen abounds ; and sugar of milk,
a substance with a large quantity of oxygen and hy-
drogen in the same proportion as in water. It also
contains in solution lactate of soda, phosphate of lime,
and common salt; and a peculiar aromatic product
exists in the butter, called butyric acid.
It is quite impossible to mature a plant of the
Gramineae, or of the Equisetaceae, the solid frame-
work of which contains silicate of potash, without
silicic acid and potash, or a plant of the genus Oxalis
without potash, or saline plants, such as the Salt-
worts (Salsola and Salicornia) without chloride of
sodium, or at least some salt of similar properties.
All seeds of the Graminese contain phosphate of mag-
nesia ; the solid parts of the roots of the Althaea
contain more phosphate of lime than woody fibre.
Are these substances merely accidentally present?
Woody fibre in a state of decay is the substance
called humus.
Humus acts in the same manner in a soil permea-
ble to air as in the air itself: it is a continued source
of carbonic acid which it emits very slowly. An
atmosphere of carbonic acid, formed at the expense of
the oxygen of the air, surrounds every particle of
decaying humus. The cultivation of land, by til-
ling and loosening the soil, causes a free and unob-
structed access of air. An atmosphere of carbonic
acid is therefore contained in every fertile soil, and is
the first and most important food for the young plants
which grow in it.
In spring, when those organs of plants are absent
which nature has appointed for the assumption of
nourishment from the atmosphere, the component
substance of the seeds is exclusively employed in the
formation of roots. Each new radical fibril which
a plant acquires may be regarded as constituting at
the same time a mouth, a lung, and a stomach. The
roots perform the functions of the leaves from the
first moment of their formation: they extract from
the soil their proper nutriment, namely, the carbonie
acid generated by the humus.
The carbonic acid, which protects the undecayed
humus from further change, is absorbed and taken
away by the fine fibres of the roots, and by the roots
themselves ; this is replaced by atmospheric air, by
which process the decay is renewed, and a fresh por-
tion of carbonic acid formed. A plant at this time
receives its food both by the roots and by the organs
above ground, and advances rapidly to maturity.
When a plant is quite matured, and when the or-
gans by which it obtains food from the atmosphere
are formed, the carbonic acid of the soil is no further
required.
Deficiency of moisture in the soil, or its complete
dryness, does not now check the growth of a plant,
provided it receives from the dew and the atmosphere
as much as is requisite for the process of assimilation.
During the heat of summer it derives its carbon ex-
clusively from the atmosphere. The power which
roots possess of taking up nourishment does not cease
as long as nutriment is present. When the food of a
plant is in greater quantity than its organs require
for their own perfect developement, the superfluous
nutriment is not returned to the soil, but is employed'
in the formation of new organs.
The power of absorbing nutriment from the atmos-
phere, with which the leaves of plants are endowed,
being proportionate to the extent of their surface,
every increase in the size and number of these plants
is necessarily attended with an increase of nutritive
power, and a constant further developement of new
leaves and branches.
We know that the functions of the leaves and green
parts of plants are to absorb carbonic acid, and with
the aid of light and moisture to appropriate its car-
bon. These processes are continually in operation ,
they commence with the first formation of the leaves,
and do not cease with their perfect developement.
But the new products arising from this continued as-
similation are no longer employed by the perfect
leaves in their own increase: they serve for the for-
mation of woody fibre, and all the solid matters of
similar composition. The leaves now produce sugar,
amylin or starch, and acids, which were previously
formed by the roots when they were necessary for
the developement of the stem, buds, leaves, and
branches of the plant.
And when the formation of the w’oody substance
has advanced to a certain extent, the expenditure of
the nutriment, the supply of which still remains
the same, takes a new direction, and blossoms are
produced.
A peculiar "transformation” of the matters con-
tained in all plants takes place in the period between
blossoming and the ripening of the fruit; new com-
pounds are produced, which furnish constituents of the
blossoms, fruit and seed.
Of two compounds formed in consequence of such
a change, one remains as a component part of the
blossom or fruit, while the other is separated by the
roots in the form of excrementitious matter. No pro-
cess of nutrition can be conceived to subsist in ani-
mals or vegetables, without a separation of effete
matters.
Whatever we regard as the cause of these transfor-
mations ; whether the vital principle, increase of
temperature, light, galvanism, or any other influence,
the act of transformation is a purely chemical pro-
cess. Combination and decomposition can take place
only when the elements are disposed to these changes.
That which chemists name affinity indicates only the
degree in which they possess this disposition.
Each organ extracts from the food presented to it
what it requires for its own sustenance ; while the
remaining elements which are not assimilated, com-
bine together and are separated as excrement. The
excrementitious matters of one organ come in contact
with another during their passage through the organ


ism and in consequence suffer new transformations j
the useless matters rejected by one organ containing
the elements for the nutrition of a second and a third
organ : but at lc=st, being capable of no further trans-
formations, they are separated from the system by
the organs destined for that purpose.
Respiration must be regarded as a slow process of
combustion or constant decomposition. If it be sub-
ject to the laws which regulate the processes of de-
composition generally, the oxygen of the inspired air
cannot combine directly with the carbon of com-
pounds of that element contained in the blood; the
hydrogen can only combine with the oxygen of the
*.ir, or undergo a higher degree of oxidation. Oxy-
gen is absorbed without uniting with carbon ; and
carbonic acid is disengaged, the carbon and oxygen
of which must be derived from matters previously
existing in the blood.
Each transformation is owing to a disturbance in
the attraction of the elements of a compound, and is
consequently a purely chemical process.
Transformations of existing compounds are con-
stantly taking place during the whole life of a plant,
in consequence of which, and as the results of these
transformations, there are produced gaseous matters
which are excreted by the leaves and blossoms, solid
excrements deposited in the bark, and fluid soluble
substances which are eliminated by the roots. Such
secretions are most abundant immediately before the
formation and during the continuance of the blossoms;
they diminish after the developement of the fruit.
Substances containing a large proportion of carbon
are excreted by the roots and absorbed by the soil.
Through the expulsion of these matters unfitted for
nutrition, the soil receives again with usury the car-
bon which it had at first yielded to the young plants
as food, in the form of carbonic acid.
The soluble matter thus acquired by the soil is still
capable of decay and putrefaction, and by undergoing
these processes furnishes renewed sources of nutrition
to another generation of plants ; it becomes humus.
The cultivated soil is thus placed in a situation ex-
actly analogous to that of forests and meadows ; for
the leaves of trees which fall in the forest in autumn,
and the old roots of grass in the meadow, are like-
wise converted into humus by the same influence : a
soil receives more carbon in this form than its decay-
ing humus had lost as carbonic acid.
GAFFER GRAY.
CHEMICAL PHILOSOPHY.
PUTREFACTION.
All animal and vegetable substances undergo a pu-
trefactive process. The principles inducing this are
oxygen and hydrogen in proportion to foim water,
and more rapidly when nitrogen is also present.
When dead animal matter is exposed to air and mois-
ture, it speedily decomposes, so much so, that all
appearance of its original texture disappears, and the
products are of a very offensive matter. This process
varies in respect to the heat present in the atmosphere,
it is most at 80 ° or 90 ° of Fahrenheit; below 50 it
goes on slowly, and at 32 ° or freezing point, it will
not take place at all. This is demonstrable by the
well known fact, that the bodies of animals which
have been buried in snow or ice, are found unchanged
after a long series of years. That putrefaction is
©wing to the presence of moisture, is aiso proved
by its being arf§sted when the substances can be
preserved quite dry. Meat well smoked is thus
secured, and animals have been found in the dry
sand of Egypt and Arabia perfectly unchanged, though
they must have been there for many years. Many
vegetable substances may also be preserved from
putrefaction for an indefinite period if carefully dried
and protected from humidity.
The humus spoken of by the indefatigable Liebig
(as quoted by the respected contributor to the Colonial
Literary Journal subscribing himself “ Gaffer Gray,”)
to whom every native of Europe is indebted, is the
soluble matter of vegetation, received into the soil as
excrementfrom the full grown plants; it there under-
goes a new process of decay and putrefaction, by
which means the earth again is in a state to give
nourishment to a new generation of plants.
But the putrefactive remains of animal substances
are likewise necessary for the growth of plants. This
is provided for in nature by the evolution of gas
called ammonia, which is a compound of hydrogen
and nitrogen. This gas rises in the atmosphere, but
as it has a strong attraction for water, it speedily
unites with the falling rains, and is conveyed by them
to the soil. The beneficial employment of the ex-
crements of animals, and the refuse of the slaughter
house, is derived from the large portions of ammonia
therein contained. The guano, lately became an
extensive article of commerce, consists of the putrid
excrements of sea birds.
There is, however, an important difference in the
animal and vegetable life, for in the one case the life
is transmitted during life and health, in the other
case the transmitter dies before the new life com-
mences. The death of a plant often takes place
immediately after yielding its fruit and seeds, as is
seen in all kinds of corn and beans, and these seeds,
used by man as the basis of his daily substance, must
be sown again, thereby giving rise to future pro-
ductions.
Liebig puts forth these questions \ (but who shall
answer them !) “ Was there a time when the indi-
vidual elements floated together in chaos, without
possessing any kind of affinity 1 Whether did the
hen exist before the egg, or the egg before the hen I
Whether did water first exist as water, or as hydrogen
and oxygen ? In what condition was then the chlorine
of common salt, or the carbon of carbonic acid
He adds “ we must rest satisfied that these questions
will either never be solved, or that they will not be
so until a future period.”
Let us, however, be content to know that the
Creator’s works were perfected when made, and be-
lieve that the embryo of the future lay in its depths.
Is this more difficult to imagine, than it is now won-
drous to behold? Who is there amongst us that has
not read the 40th chapter of the Prophecies of
Isaiah
B.
LITERARY TOILS.
[From “ Ward’s Miscellany.”]
As we frequently see statements in the public prints respecting
American literature, the press, and the number of publication
proceeding from it, intended, probably, to show the progres
of improvement in the United States, I beg yon and the puhlr
to pardon the egotism of my short story, showing what diffi
Iculties an author may have to encounter.
When I first proposed, in 1783, to publish a small elemcn
tary book for teaching children to read, T found two person
only who gave the least encouragement of success. Thes'


were the late Judge Trumbull and Joel Barlow. I was
ebliged to print and publish the book at my own risk, and
became responsible for the expense, which was more than I
was worth.
The sales of that book have amounted to fifteen millions of
copies; and the value of the materials and work which the
manufacture of it has furnished to mechanics must have risen
to a million of dollars. Plagiarists who have copied and
published my improvements have diminished my profits one-
quarter, or one-third, and I have been able to obtain little
more than a subsistence for my family.
In 1788, I found in the family of the first Governor Trumbull
the manuscript of Governor Winthrop’s journal. Desirous of
bringing that valuable document before the public, I con-
tracted with the governor’s secretary, John Porter, Esq., to
transcribe it, and paid him his price. I then procured the
work to be published at my own risk, and the copies were all
sold, but I received not a cent of profit.
In collecting materials for a “ History of Pestilential Dis-
eases,” —a work undertaken when the yellow-fever was deso-
lating our cities, —I was under the necessity of visiting the
libraries of Harvard and Yale College, and the Logonian
library in Philadelphia, for books which were not to be found
in New York, where I then resided. I received from the
elder Dr. Waid a severe rebuke for undertaking such a work,
I not being a medical man.
After a year’s labour I published the work at my own ex-
pense, and sold copies enough to pay the printers ; but re-
ceived no remuneration for my labour and other expenses.
The work was re-published in England, but at a loss.
This work excited little notice for thirty years ; but one
instance of attention to it may be mentioned. In 1813 and
1814 a fatal fever prevailed in Talbot county, Maryland. Dr.
Emails Martin, of Easton, finding the usual remedies failed of
success, changed his practice in consequence of attending to i
my doctrines respecting epidemics, and saved his patients, j
This he acknowledged.
But the cholera awakened attention to this book both in
England and the United States; the ablest physicians now
admitting that this disease has verified my opinions.
My large dictionary, and the preparatory studies, cost me
twenty years’ labour. When I commenced I was fifty years
old, and had begun to wear spectacles. My funds were not
adequate to the object; but I imported a few books which
were indispensable. I applied to men of great wealth for
assistance, but received none from them; a few friends, how-
ever, lent me aid a short time, when my own resources failed.
My expenses during the execution of this work must have
been aUeast twenty thousand dollars, not including those of
a voyage to Europe. The sales will never reimburse me.
When this work was finished it was difficult to find a pub-
lisher. The bookseller who undertook the publication could
find none of the trade in our large cities who would take a
share in the enterprise; and he could not put the work to
press till I had endorsed his note to a bank for two thousand
dollars.
The first edition has been long since exhausted, and the
work is often called for; but my efforts to find a publisher
have hitherto failed; and I have no means of' supplying the
demand except to authorise the importation of copies of the
English reprint.
I have on hand a manuscript sufficient to make a small
quarto volume; this is a synopsis of the principal words in
twenty languages, arranged in classes under the same radical
letters. This work was compiled during my preparation of
the dictionary, and the materials sought by a new course of
researches, and in exploring a field never before attempted.
H would probably throw ranch light on the history and co n '
nexion of languages; but no bookseller will publish it, as the
sales would not reimburse him. Dr. Julius, the agent of the
King of Prussia, when in this country, urged me to send the
manuscript to Europe, saying, that any of the literary societies
in Germany, or Berlin, would readily publish it. But this
cannot be done, as the work must be printed under my own
inspection.
NOAH WEDSTER.
New Haven, Aug. 10, 1837.
To the Editor of the “ Boston Recorder."
Original Poetry
FIRST OF MARCH.
Come my covies, come my covies,
Landlords, tenants, lessees, lessors,
Old tried hand, and late come novice.
Choose your Auditors and Assessors !
Patriots, equal, free and manly,—
Sneaking slaves,—and proud oppressors,—
Who love, or hate, Sir George and Stanley,
Choose you Auditors and Assessors !
English comfort lovers, jo ly,—
Laughter loving Celts, confessors, —
Scotch sae douce, wha gang sae slowly,—
Choose your Auditors and Assessors
Australese young, tough and leggy,—
Naturaliz’d meinherrs and messieurs,—
Know your British rights, I beg ye,
Choose your Auditors and Assessors !
See the Aldermen appearing,
(In bright coats and buttons dressers,
Hating lucre, conscience-fearing,)
Choose your Auditors and Assessors!
Here’s no candidate ambitious, —
Stirring canvass, —betting guessers,—
Barren promise,—bribe pernicious,—
Choose your Auditors and Assessors !
Dropping in by ones and twos,
State and solemn calm impress us,
Here we may serenely choose—
Choose our Auditors and Assessors !
THE NIGHT WATCHMAN'S MUSINGS
No. 111.
Ever, ever, as I gr,
Up or down, or quick or slow,
Softly pace or solemn stalk
Lonely on my midnight walk
To myself I think and talk.
Night is fav’rable to thought—
And in speech relief is sought.
Hour to hour, and street to street,
’Tis a long unvaried beat.
Lonely ’tis and ’twould be weary,
Eerie, dreary and uncheery,
All night to loiter, lounge and lag,
Over grit, and sand, and flag,
And keep company and chat
With the cat, and rat, and bat,
Or with former self debate
And grave strains reciprocate,—
Yes, ’twere sad—ev’n now ’tia so
When the thoughts untoward flow,—
But 'twere sadder, beyond bearing,
Manhood-killing, wearing, tearing,
But that grey philosophy,
Sublime, divine, oft visits me.
Ancient lore, and modern science,
Give me power to say defiance
To azure fiends in bad alliance.
The moon’s deoxidising ray
A 8 she threads through clouds her wav
Though her path in truth lies clear ' ’
Far beyond our atmosphere,—
She earth’s being knows and action
In borrow’d light and strong attraction,—
Through three-and-twenty myriad miles
Of space she sends her quiet smiles,
And serenely they alight
Now on left cheek, now on right ;
Whafe’er physicians may maintain


I know they do not heat the brain.
That light I love —its woith I feel
To e®ol my brain, yet not congeal,
To soothe me in a chaste delight,
But not to madden or incite.
Yet her broad effulgent phasis,
Tis averr'd, in many cases,
Makes it needful to restrain
The intermittently insane.
Tarban of the living dead !
Mural bounds, and rural shade,
Scenes romantic, peaceful cloisters.
Seabeach strolls, and fresh mud-oysters !
When by townly troubles tir’d
Oft have I thy screen desir'd.
Thence we see the steamers pass,
Bearing on their breasts a mass
Of more regulated folly,
Wrath and sin and melancholy.
Tarban of the dead-alive !
Who would still persist to strive
With the world, its strife and din,
And the microcosm within f
Who attempt from day to day
Elastic step, demeanour gay !
Who, by eourage false, soon gone,
Squeezing through, and dragging on,
Unavailing war would wage !
Rather, in thy hermitage,
Let him timeously engage
(Ere harsh circumstance destroys
Lucid sheen and equipoise
Of his judgment sound and clever,)
Rooms that look upon the river.
But of them whom chains controal
Or the darker chains of soul,
Those whom God has early freed
From moral weight of code and creed,
Those by vile indulgence lost,
Those by loves or horrors crost,
Noble structures piecemeal crumbling,
Sacred are their states and humbling,
Breathe not of them speech profane, —*
From the sad task I refrain.
The moon’s deoxidising ray,
Has peculiar powers, they say.
Sea-cooks who cure fish, it seems
Will not hang it in her beams.
The tendency to putrefaction,
Is much promoted by their action;
The old affinities are loos’d
And other compounds are produced.
This action is deoxidation,
A purely chemieal operation.
Th’ effect upon the living frame,
I apprehend is much the same.
Were it a moonlight ev’ning, and a
Man went to sleep in a viranda,
The action of the lunar ray
By whose inflow corporeal heat,
And vital pulses glow and beat;
Would take his oxygen away,
And the result more ultimate,
(If he was in a sober state,
And if not very genial weather,)
Might be to kill-him altogether.
In this most genial of all climes,
(Rather hot and dry at times,)
Folks may sleep the open air in,
Or ’neath tents and drays, uncaring.
But from moist and misty hollows
Rheumatism or ague follows.
Mark the changeful Fahrenheit,
Tn disturb’d electric state
Of the circumambient air,
From stormy up to settled fair!
Down it falls, all plump at once,
When the hurricanes advance-”
Up it rises, like a jet,
When we’re sure of heavy w«t!
Such electric states may serve
More to shake the sentient nerve,
More pevvade the system through
Than lunar light is like to do*.
NOCTIVAGUS.
CORRESPONDENCE.
TV the Editor of the Colonial Literary Journal.
Sir, — lam a gentleman who has lately become an inmate in
a respectable boarding-house in town, where, among other
things, there are two young ladies, whose coldness and
frigidity of manner causes me much uneasiness. If I happen
to be in their company alone, they engross the whole of the
conversation to themselves, and whenever I attempt to speak,
or offer the most trifling remark, they become both instantly
dumb.
You must know, Sir, the sole cause for this unmerited and
unnecessary piece of cruelty originates in a false report that
I am about to “ break my mind,” as the phrase is, very sud-
denly to one of them. I therefore request you will insert my
letter, and inform these ladies that, as my heart remains per-
fectly unscathed by either of them, there is little probability
of my “breaking” my mind on this side of Easter; and let
them be at liberty to treat me in future with some degree of
freedom and civility, or at least with ordinary indifference •
and not to blush, and hide behind each other, every time I
attempt to address them, but sometimes bestow a kind look,
or even condescend to smile, which I assure them they may
do without the smollest danger to themselves, or to, Sir, your
humble servant,
BOB COURTLEY.
The late Mb. C. Smith’s Horned Stock. —We beg to
draw the attention of parties interested in the purchase of
cattle, to the sale by Mr. Stubbs, to-morrow, (see our advertis-
ing columns,) of the choice and well-selected herds, together
with the stations, of the late Mr. C. Smith. This is an oppor-
tunity that should not be lost sight of by parties wishing to
improve the breed of their horned stock. The acknowledged
judgment of Mr. Smith in the choice and selection of both
cattle and horse stock has long been universally admitted.
In fact, he was the frequent resource of parties embarking in
pastoral pursuits, which is as good a guarantee for the quality
of his own selection as need be looked for. We have no
doubt there will be a spirited competition on the day of sale,
and persons intending to purchase had better be in attend-
ance early, in order that they may not lose so favourable an
opportunity as the one now presented—such an one is not
likely to occur again for some time.
Australian Floral and Horticultural Society.—
i Our readers will perceive by this day’s advertisement that the
! next exhibition of this spirited and valuable association is
intended to take place on Wednesday next. It is expected
to possess peculiar interest on this occasion, not only on ac-
count of the usual superior show of Colonial produce, but also
from the number of new articles of export, and the improve-
ments in agricultural and general machinery, that will be
exhibited. It is manifest that every well-wisher to the ad~
| vancement of the Colony should take an active interest in the
| welfare of this society.
THE HUNTER OF “THE FAR WEST."
[From Oliver’s “Eight Months in Illinois.”]
The hunter is always poor, and in some measure
despised by his more industrious neighbours; and
when a man once acquires a habit of wandering in
the pathless wilderness in search of game, it takes
such hold of him, that he very rarely shakes it off ;
indeed, the occupation requires a vigilance so absorb-
ing, as speedily to characterise his whole manner.
The old hunter’s eye is never at rest; meet him where
you will, in the forest or within the w r alls of a house,
and whilst he is conversing with you, his eye will
be wandering slowly and intently from object to
object \ and if on his feet, he will be constantly
shifting his position, and, with his head and shoulders
depressed with habitual caution, will repeatedly sweep
the entire circle of vision.
The real hunter is the pioneer of American civili-
sation. He is the first to dispute the possession of
the wilderness with the red man and with the wild
denizens of the forest, and in some measure, like


them, is intolerant of the near approach of a popu-
lation bringing with it the trammels and interruptions
of civilised institutions. The sound of the axe in
the woods is hateful to him ; and no sooner does the
smoke of the settler’s fire become frequent in his
neighbourhood, than, packing up his scanty move-
ables, and placing them in a vehicle of most primi-
tive construction, he, with his family, seeks a more
congenial home in those solitudes where nature still
holds undisputed sway. He buys no land, nor asks
any one’s leave to build his hut or till his little corn
patch. Let not the inhabitants of the crowded city
think, that in doing this the hunter makes any great
sacrifice ; he is merely giving way to the impulse of
habit, and choosing what is most agreeable to his
tastes. He was born in solitude. No busy hum of
men—no “ sound of church-going bell” ever saluted
his young ears. All his feelings, all his reasonings,
are influenced by the loneliness in which they were
conceived. His associations are not tinctured with
the busy crowds and homes of cities, but with the still
solitudes of the primeval forest. Helias not learned
to philosophise on the ebbs and flows in the destinies
of congregated millions; but he has wandered and
mused on the banks of some leviathan river, rolling
its waters along, whither he knows not, whence he
cannot tell—a dream, a mystery.
Your true hunter is often a simple-minded unaf-
fected child of nature ; true, he is ignorant, but this
ignorance includes the follies and very many of
the vices of civilised life. The worst example of his
tribe is he who has not fled before the influx of popu-
lation, and who, impatient of the restraints of indus-
tiious habits, has generally reaped nothing from
civilisation beyond its vices and its scorn.
The hunter of the west generally follows his occu-
pation on horseback ; and a more picturesque turn-
out, or one more in keeping with the accompanying
scenery, is not often to be met with. He generally
wears a broad-brimmed palmetto hat, covering a pro-
fusion of hair, which flows over his neck and shoulders.
His face, tanned by exposure to all weathers, is often
garnished by a beard, untouched by razor or scissors
for many weeks; and his throat,’unless the weather
is severe, is unfettered with a neckcloth.! His capot,
made from a Mackinaw blanket, generally blue or pale
green, has the broad gray border fantastically ar-
ranged about the cuffs, neck,andbetwenthe shoulders ;
whilst his capacious trousers, of home-made janes,
have their nether extremities stuffed into the tops of
his long-legged boots, made somewhere down east.
Slung over his shoulder is a bullet-pouch made of
leather, or of the furred skin of some wild animal,
ornamented with sundry tags and fringes, accom-
panied by a pow'der-flask made of a fine horn, and
polished so thin, that the grains of powder can be
seen through it; a charge or powder measure of horn
or hone, with an attempt at carving upon it, and
often with the initials of the owner’s name upon it,
and a tomahawk with its head enclosed in a leathern
case. In the front part of the belt which sustains
the last-mentioned articles is a sheath containing a
large knife. The other shoulder is occupied by a
heavy rifle, with a barrel of fifty inches long, stocked
forward to the muzzle, and mounted with brass.
The butt, in some instances, ornamented and inlaid
with silver, is hollowed out into a crescent shape at
the extremity, so as to sit securely on the arm, and
thus to act as a counterpoise to the leverage oi the
muzzle. The horse, like its rider, is “ unkempt, un-
shorn,” with flowing mane and tail, caparisoned with
a double-reined bridle with Spanish bit, heavy and
plated with brass, and a Spanish saddle with heavy
brass stirrups; a blanket being folded for a saddle-
cloth.
Riding leisurely along the outskirts of the prairie-
girt grove, he is seen to stop at a point commanding
a view of some sweeping vista embayed in the dark
woods,like an ai mof the sea, with many winding chan-
nels of green among the bosky islands of hazel, sumac,
and sassafrass. Long and patiently he stands search-
ing the openings with his practised eye, to catch a
glimpse of the browsing deer. If, after waiting a
considerable time, he sees no game, he moves to some
other point; but if he should happen to see a deer, he
slips from his horse, and by taking advantage of any
inequality of the ground, or of intervening bushes,
and by keeping the game between him and the wind,
tries to get within shooting distance, and is generally
pretty secure of his object at one hundred and twenty
or one hundred and thirty paces, if his rifle is not of
very small calibre. Should the deer run off, the
western hunter rarely attempts a running shot; but
should he succeed in killing his deer, and not be de-
sirous of procuring any more, he goes for his horse,
which is broken to stand for hours where he is left,
and, having pulled the deer up before him, takes it
home. If the deer be too heavy for him, or he wish
to continue his hunt, he cuts a forked sapling with
his tomahawk, strips it of its top branches, and hav-
ing bound the hind-legs together, slips them into the
fork, and raises the carcass against a tree, to a height
sufficient to secure it from dogs and beasts of prey ;
or, adopting another method, he climbs up a slender
tree, and bending its top to the ground secures the
deer to it, not too near the top, by the hind-legs,
when he lets go, and the elasticity of the tree raises
the slaughtered game to the height required, At his
leisure, he returns with a small light sled or cart,
and conveys the fruits of his hunt to his primitive
dwelling.
EXTRACTS.
Madame Celeste and the Art of Dancing. —“ Wall,
by-am-by, a bell tinkled ; the pictur Tolled up agin, and the
fiddlers begun to put on elbow grease, till the music came out
slick enough. Instead of the garden there was a long ball-
room, with rows of great shiney pillars, running all through it.
It was as light as day, for there seemed to be candles out of
sight among the pillars, besides a row of lamps that stood
along the pen where the musicianers sot. I was staring with
all the eyes I had in my head, when the harnsomest critter I ever
sot eyes on, cum flying into the middle of the room, and there
she stood on one foot, with her arms held out, and her face
turned towards us, looking as bold and smiling, and as soft a*
if she had done nothing else in all her life. I was so scared
when she first sprung in, that I rally didn’t know which end
of my head was on. The darned critter was more than half
naked—she was, by golly ! To save my life I couldn’t look
at her right straight with that blue eyed gal a setting close by
me. At fust I was so struck up that I couldn’t see nothing but
an illfired harnsome face a smiling from under a wreath of
flowers, and naked legs and arms and neck, a flying round like
a live windmill. I thought I should go off the'handle at first.
I felt a sort of dizzy, and as if I was blushing all over. I
don’t think I ever was in such an eternal twitter in my hull
life. I partly got up tu go out, and then I sot down agin as
streaked as lean pork, and kivered my face with my yeller
gloves, but some how I couldn’t hold my hands still all I could
du, the fingers would git apart, so that I couldn’t help but look
through them at that plaguey darned, harnsome, undecent
critter, as she jumped and whirled and streathed her naked


arms out towards us, and stood smiling and coaxing, and look-
ing to the fellers. It was enough tu make a feller tu cuss his
mother because she was a woman ; but I’ll be darned if ever
there was a feller on arth that could help looking at the
critter ! I’ve seen a bird charmed by a black snake, but it was
nothing tu this —not a priming. One minute she'd kinder
flutter round the room softly and still, like a bird that’s jest
beginning to fly, then she’d stand on one foot, and twinkle
t’other out and in, against the ankle, so swift you couldn’t but
jest see it. Then she’d hop for’ard, and twist her arms up on
her bosom, and stick one legf out behind her, and stand on one
toe for ever so long, till all on us had a fair sight on her that way.
Then she’d shake another hop, and pint her right toe for’ard,
and lift it higher, till by-am-by, round she’d go like a top,
with her leg stuck out straighf, and whirling round and round,
like the spoke of a broken waggin with a foot tu it. It raly
did beat all that ever I did see. When she stood up straight,
her white frok was all sprigged over with silver, and it looked
like a cloud of snow, but it didn’t reach half way down tu her
knees, and stuck out dreadfully behind. I hadn’t dared to
to unkiver my face yet, and was sort of tremblin all over in a
dreadful puker, wondering what on arth she meant tu du next,
when she gave a whirl, kissed her hands, and hopped away as
spry as a cricket, jest as she came in.— Jonathan Slick's High
Li/o in New York.
Faults in Printing. —Every one has observed in reading,
occasional mistakes of the printer; such as a letter, a word, or
a point misplaced. The wonder is, that such inaccuracies do
not more frequently occur, considering the care which is neces-
sary to procure perfect correctness, and the haste with which
printing is often executed. The following ingenious and elo-
quent apology for faults of this kind is given in Peter Martyr’s
“ Common Places,” a book which was published in the year
1574. The original spelling is preserved:—“There is no
garden so well trimmed but hath some weeds ; no silver so
well tried but hath some drosse; no wine so well fined but
hath some leeze; no honie so well clarified but hath some
dregs : finallie, no human action but hath some defect; mar-
vell not then, (good readers) that in so huge a volume, consist-
ing of so manie leaves, lines, and letters oftentimes varied,
both in forme and matter, a fault or two doo escape ; were the
corrector’s care never so great, his diligence never so earnest,
his labour never so continual, his eies never so quick, his
judgement never so sound, his memorie never so firm ;
brieflie, all his senses never so active and livelie. faults,
therefore, as are passed, being but few in number, if it please
you, in reading favourable to amend according as they be here
corrected; yourselves shall be profited, and I satisfied. (Here
follow six corrections.) These are thought necessarie to be
noted; others (if anie be) I refer vnto your owne selves, that
shall take paines to peruse the whole book aduisedlie.”
Importance of correct Punctuation. - The contract
made for lighting the town of Liverpool, during the year 1819,
was thrown void by the misplacing of a comma in the adver-
tisement, thus : —“Thelamps at present are about 4050, and
have in general two spouts each, composed of not less than
twenty threads of cotton." The contractor would have pro-
ceeded to furnish each lamp with the said twenty threads; but
this being but half the usual quantity, the commissioners dis-
covered that the difference arose from the comma following
instead of preceding the word each. The parties agreed to
annul the contract, and a new one was ordered.
Paying a Bill. —How civil-eyes-e d a man looks while you
are paying him “ that little bill.” At least we always think so.
331rtf)S.
On the 19th Instant, at her residence, Morgan’s Buildings,
North Kent-street, Mrs. Henry Moore, of a daughter.
On the 18th instant, at her residence, Surry Hills, the lady
of John Stirling, Esq., of a daughter.
On the 14th instant, at Neotsfield, Hunter River, the lady
of Henry Dangar, Esq., of a son.
On the 15th instant, at her residence, Baltinglass, county of
King, the wife of Surgeon B. Clayton, of a son.
On the 11th instant, at the Parsonage, Yass, the lady of the
Rev. Charles Ferdinand Brigstocke, of a son.
On the 18th instant, at Merton, the residence of her father,
Mrs. W. C. Bundock, of a daughter.
IBeatfjs.
At Parramatta, on the 6th February, 1845, Mr. George
Evans, formerly engineer of the Clonmel steam-packet, and
latterly of the Emu.
On the 14th instant, at Wollongong, at the residence of Mr.
Matthew Ryan, Mr. Robert Purcell, late Sheriff’s Officer,
gripping Intelligent.
ARRIVALS.
February 19.—The steamer Maitland , Parsons, from Port
Macquarie, with 34 bales wool, and 7000 feet cedar.—The
schooner John and Charlotte, Paterson, from Port Albert, 14th
instant.
February 20. —The brig Tigress , Sury, from the Whaling
Grounds.
February 22.—The barque Clarkstane, Stewart, from the
Whale Fishery.
Fehruary 23.—The steamer William the Fourth, Wiseman,
from the Clarence River, with wool.
February 25.—-The steamer Sovereign, Cape, from Moreton
Bay.—The barque Bright Planet , Kyle, from the Whale Fishery.
DEPARTURES.
February 19. —The schooner Wave, Birkenshaw, for Port
Phillip.—The schooner Martha and Elizabeth, Devlin, for Port
Phillip.—The schooner Phoebe, Bennett, for Hobart Town.—
The schooner Munford, Orr, for Singapore.—The barque Rose,
Creighton, for the Whaling Grounds.
February 20. —The schooner Edward, Truscott, for Boyd
Town, Twofold Bay.—The schooner Coquette, Rogers, for
Auckland.
February 22. —The brig Essington, Griffiths, for Launceston
via Port Fairy.—The schooner Scotia, Ward, for Port Nichol-
son.—The steamer Shamrock, Gilmore, for Twofold Bay, Mel-
bourne, and Launceston.—The brig William, Thom, for Laun-
ceston.
February 23.—The U.S.S. St. Louis, M’Keever, for New
Zealand and Tahiti —The barque Chance, Ptoxby, for London.
—The sshooner Jane, Thorne, for Moreton Bay.
February 24.—The barque Lucy Ann, Long, for the Whal-
ing Grounds.—The brig Dorset, Walsh, for Adelaide. —The
brig Louisa, Tucker, for Hobart Town. —The steamer James
Watt, Taggart, for Hobart Town. —The schooner Aurora,
Turner, for the Bay of Islands and Auckland.
A'iTSTl&.fr&XAig - FLORAS) and HOSRTECTTEiTITSAS
SOCEST -^.
THE AUTUMNAL EXHIBITION of the above Society
will take place on Wednesday next, sth day of March ;
when prizes will be awarded for Fruit, Vegetables,
Wine, Tobacco, and other articles likely to become an export.
The usual regulations will be in force on the occasion.
Members and their families only will be admitted before
one o’clock. Visitors from one to six.
The Committee request persons having any article likely to
become of importance as an export, or any machinery used for
the production of useful articles for domestic use or commerce,
will be pleased to forward the same for public inspection at
the exhibition. Every possible care will be taken of all articles
exhibited.
Exhibitors or their agents are requested to be in attendance
at nine o’clock on the morning of Thursday, 6th March, for
the purpose of removing the articles exhibited by them.
Tickets of admittance may be obtained from the Treasurer,
Mr. J. Rickards, George-street; or at the door on the day of
exhibition.
(Signed) R. HIPKIS3,
Secretary.
31,6, T STESET.
THE GENERAL PRINTING OFFICE
AND
Office of the " Colosiiat literary Journal.”
BOOK- WORK and PAMPHLETS to any extent; also,
Posting-bills, Hand-bills, Circulars, Cards, Orders,
Receipts, Invoice Heads, Labels, Law Forms, Nautical Forms,
and any other description of Letter-press Printing, executed
on the shortest notice, and at reasonable charges, by
J. READING.
February 26, 1845.
A CAJ&D.
A PERSON of steady habit 3, who has four or five hours to
spare daily, wants employment as Office keeper, Mes-
senger, or light Porter : he can also keep plain accounts.
Apply at the Office of this Paper.


WO TZQ&.
rjpiiE Partnersliip hitherto subsisting between ns, under
|_ the style and firm of Benham and Co., is this day dis-
solved by mutual consent, and all moneys owing to the late
firm are to bejpaid to Mr. Avery Benham.
AVERY BENHAM.
ROBERT PORTER.
Witness—CharleslMalpa&s.
February 1, 1845.
4 VERY BENHAM, in reference to the above notice,
IT returns his grateful acknowledgements to his friends
and patrons for the liberal support he has experienced since
his commencement, and in soliciting on behalf of himself a
continuance of those favours, assures them of his determination
to uphold the character of his establishment, by offering the
best articles at the lowest remunerating profit.
He has just received, ex the Midlothian, a choice assort-
ment of Italian goods, the inspection of which he respectfully
invites. He has also on hand
Hysonskin Tea of every brand
Souchong and Congou ditto
Finest Hyson
Coffee, raw and roasted
Sugar of all kinds
Negrohead, Cavendish, and Colo-nlal Tobaeeo
York Hams, Cheese, and Bacon
Butter, a weekly supply.
With every article in the trade; and he pledges himself that
by care in the selection and promptitude in dispatch, to merit
a continuation of the patronage so liberally bestowed on him-
self and predecessor.
Country orders will meet with immediate attention.
No. 394, George-street.
c. m. PSBmir,
Chemist and Druggist, 55 8, George-street , Sydney,
BEGS respectfully to announce that he has just received,
ex Sarah Birhett, an addition to his former stock of the
toll owing scarce articles, the chemicals in which having been
obtained direct from the manufacturing districts in England,
M. I. trusts that great reliance will be placed on their
genuineness:—
Hydriodate potash
Finest Turkey opium
Powdered opium
Ess. oil bitter almonds, or flavouring %iki
Creosote, camphor, calomel, quinine^
Blue stone
East India rhubarb
East India gum arabic (for confectioners)
Spt. sal volatile
Spt. hartshorn
Moxon’s magnesian aperient
Beaufoy’s chlorides of lime and soda
Essence bergamotte
Essence lemon
Hydrocyanic acid (Scheele's)
Lunar caustio
Muriate and acetate morphia
Liq. ammon fort.
Sweet spirits nitre
Sal ammoniac (in fine powder)
Henry’s calcined magnesia
Carbonate ammonia
Sublimed sulphur
Sedative solution of opium
Salts of sorrel, &e. &c.
A large assortment of the various essential oils
medicinal leaves, barks, and flowers.
, gums, and
tust sascssvss,
FROM ONE OF THE FIRST HOUSES IN LONDON,
kS’LnA?®!®’- COn ?r ng a n OSt ele * ant and Vari ‘’ d a *SDrt-
i ■ • p , ln anc * drawn Sllk > satin, and fancy BONNETS
which having been purchased in England upon the most ad'
rS' '™ s > Mrs - D <»>so„ can confidently as"r, thai
the ladies of Sydney have now an opportunity (which has
never before been presented to them) of selecting rea ly Sion
colony. P ‘ iCeS -"“ of
Show Room next the Commercial Bank, George-street
ft.Si in ‘"o fc. style, upon
SIOBS,
SECOND MEETING.
EASTER MONDAY, 24th MARCH, 1845.
FIRST RACE.
THE PETERSHAM PURSE of Thirty Sovereigns, for
all horses, weight for age) heats twice round; entrance
two sovereigns; three entrances or no race. The winner not
to be allowed to run in the following races. Weights two
years old, 6st. 2Jbs.; three ditto, fst. Gibs. ; four ditto, Bst.
41bs.; five ditto, Bst. 121b5.; six and aged, ost. Gibs Mares
and geldings allowed Slbs.
SECOND RACE.
THE \\OOLP ACK PURSE of Twenty Sovereigns, for
all horses, weight for age; heats once round; entrance'one
pound ten shillings. Conditions and weights the saiuo as for
the Petersham Purse.
third race.
THE LADIES’ PURSE of Ten Sovereigns, for horses
not exceeding fourteen hands; entrance one pound; heats
once round ; three entrances or no race. Weights— two years
old, 6st.; three ditto, 6st. 71bs.; four ditto, 7st.; five ditto
7st. Gibs.; six and aged, Bst. Mares and geldings allowed Slbs!
FOURTH RACE.
THE BEATEN PURSE of Five Sovereigns, with the
entrances added, for the beaten horses, to be handicapped bv
the Stewards. Post entrance, half-a-guinea. Once round.
In all the races the second horse is to receive back his
entrance.
All horses must be entered at the Committee-room, at Mr.
James Oatley's, the “ Spostsman’s Inn,” corner of Pitt and
Goulburn streets, between the hours of seven and ten, on the
evening of Thursday, the 20th March next ensuing, when the
colours of the riders must be declared ; and any rider changing
his colours shall pay a fine of one sovereign before starting.
No person shall be allowed to enter a horse who is not a
subscriber to the amount of £\.
The decisions of the Stewards to be final.
Admission to the Course will be allowed only through the
gate opposite Mr. Shaw’s, « Woolpack Inn.” Terms-four-
each VehlC es * ls ' 6d,; two * wheel, 1«. ; saddle burses, 6d.
N. B All doge found on the Course to be destroyed.
Judge—Mr. T. May.
Stewards—Mr. C. Roberts, Mr. E. Rapcr. ar4 Ur.
J. Kettle.
Treasurer and Secretary—R. Goodall,
Clerk of the Course— R. Cullen.
Committee-room, February 13, 1845.
PSTBBSHa.ES BaGBS.
6ECOND MEETING,
EASTER MONDAY, 24th MARCH, 1845.
'T'ENDERS FOR THE GATE on the above dav, will be
received by the Secretary, at the Committee-room, Mr.
Uatley’s, “Sportsman’s Inn,’’ corner of Pitt <*ul Goulburn
streets, on or before twelve o’clock, on Thursday, the 13th
March next. The Tenders must be delivered sealed, and the
highest to be accepted. The successful party must pay a
deposit of half the amount to the Treasurer at the time of
acceptance, and the remainder on or before seven o’clock,
p.m. on Monday, the 17th March, or the deposit will be for-
teited, and the next highest Tender will be accepted. Terms
or admission, see Race Advertisement.
TENDERS FOR BOOTHS on the Course, must be sent
in sealed, and directed to the Secretary, at the Committee-
room on or before seven o’clock, p.m., on Mondav, the 17th
March next, when the four highest Tenders will be accepted.
All other Booths and Stalls must be applied for to the
Secretary, or Mr. Shaw, who will point out the ground and
agree for the same; and no persons will be allowed to offer
anything for sale on the Course, without paying towards the
Race Fund. 6
No liquor of any kind will be allowed to be sold, except at
the licensed Booths. r
R. W. GOODALL,
r . Treasurer and Seoretary.
Committee-room, February 13, 1846.


• 2E*A3H:O?SABX*:a BAWCSKB.
MR. J. CLARK has this day re-opened, at bis New
Rooms, Mr. Mackay’s Australian Inn, Parramatta, for
the Tuition of DANCING, in all its various branches, and the
most modern style, viz : Quadrilles, Sixdrills, Gallopades,
Mazourkas, Waltzes, Circassian Circles, &c.
Terms—One Guinea per Quarter, One lesson in each week.
Hours of attendance from Seven till Nine o’clock in the
evening.
Those Parents and Guardians who may honour him with
the tuition of their Children, may depend upon the strictest
attention being paid to their genteel carriage and deportment.
Private instruction to those who may not wish to join the
Classes, on moderate terms, at their residences, or at his
rooms.
Families and Schools punctually attended to.
Entrance to the Rooms by a private door in Church-street
Fees paid in advance if required.
VAaaOVILLB SUTTEE.
rpHE Subscriber having contracted for the weekly supply,
X offers the above at the lowest market price to his friends
and the public.
‘ AVERY BENHAM,
No. 394, George-street.
These are an excellent break
fast relish.
•* &ENEEAL BEWITT."
PINT SALAD OILS, in three dozen ease*
Spanish and French Olives
Smoked Herrings
Pine Cheese
Herring Paste
Anchovy Paste
Pate de Diable
Gorgona Anchovies.
From the scarcity and excellent quality of the above selec-
tion, they can be most confidently recommended.
ROBERT PORTER
City Warehouse, 424, George-street.
THE WOOL SEASON.
ETTLERS, Storekeepers, and all large consumers, visit-
-15 ing Sydney, are invited to call and inspect the extensive
and well-selected stock of the undersigned, consisting of—
Hysonskin tea, ex Dawson, Isabella, Lord Amherst, Maid of
Athens, and Orwell, embracing those of the finest qualities,
and all kinds of ration tea.
Souchong and congou teas, in chests and half chests.
Fine hyson and congou teas, in ten catty boxes.
M'anila and Java coffee, raw and roasted.
Refined sugar, and Company’s pieces, in hogsheads and casks.
Manila and Siam sugars, of all kinds. .
Negrohead and Cavendish tobacco, in tierces, kegs, and boxes,
in or out of bond.
Poydell’s and inferior colonial tobacco.
Manila cigars, Nos.'3 and 4 A, in and 6Ut of bond.
Liverpool salt, coarse and fine.
Currants and pudding raisins,
Muscatel raisins and Jordan almonds.
An assortment of tea, sugar, and wrapping paper, of all kinds,
by the bale or ream.
Wax, sperm, mould, and dip candles.
Day and Martin’s and Williams’ paste and liquid blacking.
Patnarice, pearl barley, and oatmeal.
Soda, crystallized or carbonate.
Cream of tartar and tartaric acid.
Bluestone and corrosive sublimate.
Epsom salts.
Bottled fruits and pickles, of all descriptions.
Fine York hams.
ALSO,
A choice assortment of rums, brandies, and gin, in and out of
bond.
Sherry, old port, champagne, and claret, in wood and bottle.
Bottled ale and porter.
Which, with every article in the trade, are offered on those
liberal terms which have already secured for his Establishment
that decided preference which a discerning public have hitherto
so liberally awarded, and to maintain a steady continuance of
which no pains shall be spared which ample capital and com-
petent skill can command.
ROBERT PORTER,
City Tea Warehouse, No. 424, George-street, Sydney.
February 8.
ZMPOBTAK’T TO PAJttXS,IBS.
rpHE undersigned begs thus publicly to announce that lie
has on Sale several trunks of Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
30TS and SHOES, which he is selling at from 25 to 50 per
eent. less than the Shoemakers have of late been charging. An
early call is solicited,
J. M. ILLIDGE,
George-street.
Next door to Mr. Iredale’s,
Opposite the Market.
N.B.—Settlers and Families living in the country will
effect a great saving by purchasing their Boots and Shoes at
the above establishment.
£3- OBSERVE THE ADDRESS!
WALZSS'S FAEINACEOUS POOD
~ "S particularly adapted for sick children, and recommended
by the faculty in cases of dysentery. Sold by all the
' fruggists and Grocers.
February 1845.
The late Mr. Charles Smith’s High-bred Herds
of Horned Stock.
ISOO Head of Cattle* with Station* Liverpool
Plains.
1200 Eead of Cattle* with Station, at the Big
Bives.’*
The highly-improved Stock and valuable Property of the late
Ur. Charles Smith t by order of the EexcutrU and the
Executors .
MR. STUBBS is favoured with instructions from the
Executrix and Executors of the late Mr, Charles Smith,
to sell by public auction, at the Mart, King-street,
TO-MORROW, 28th FEBRUARY, 1645,
At Twelve o’clock precisely, viz.,
Lot 1.-—*lsoo Head of Cattle, consisting of
Breeding and Milch Cowtf
Bullocks
Heifers
Steers, &c'.
Two imported Durham Bull*
Eight pure-bred Bulls
Four Stock-horses, one dray, eight working
bullocks, bows and yokes, &c. j plough, farm-
ing utensils, stores, &c.
Together with the right of the Manilla station,
and all improvement# thereon, Liverpool
Plains district.
Lot 1.—>1200 Head of Cattle, consisting of
Breeding and Milch Cows
Bullocks
Heifers
Steers, &d.
One imported Durham Bull
Two pure-bred Bulls
Two Stock-horses
■With right of station Darreellarri, on the Big
River.
Of the Cattle. —Mr. Stubbs feels himself restricted from
entering into further observations respecting the beauty, con-
dition, and quality of Mr. Smith’s breed of Cattle, than that
the young stock are the descendants of pure-bred Durham
imported Bulls, in the selection of which it is well known the
late Mr. Smith spared neither pains nor expense, whilst the
current of improvement has all along been perpetuated from
time to time, and year after year, as circumstances offered.
Of the Stations. —It will be sufficient to inform intending
purchasers that, for splendour of pastural richness and variety
of grazing purposes, they may be termed “ the fattening
grasses of the North,” upwards of 800 head of fat cattle
having been driven to the Sydney market from the “Manilla
Station” alone in eighteen months; whilst it is known that
the Big River Station has nine miles of river frontage, in-
dependent of two chains of ponds within the run.
For further particulars apply to Mr. Stubbs, at the Auction
Mart, King-street.
Terms at sale.
