

COLONIAL
LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
“ NON TUA TE MOVKANT, SSJJ PUXSLICA VOTA.”
Vol. I. No. 16.]
SYDNEY, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1844.
[Price 4d,
MISAPPLICATION OP TALENTS.
When any one conceives that he possesses some pe-
culiar mental qualification which should bring him to
distinction in life, let him by all means exert that
property, say some, in every feasible way for the end
he has in view. But certain it is, we add, that he
will obtain that credit only to which his abilities iustlv
entitle him. 3
The number of aspirants for literary fame is far
greater than generally supposed, except by those who
p iss * behind the scenes” in the office of a periodical
of some standing. In this branch of mental exertion
namely, in literary composition, especially as placed
under tue head of contributions to periodical papers
and magazines—how many mispend their time, and
mi apply their talents, in some production for which
they mndly hope for editorial approval, and yet how
' w should expect to receive it. A person who writes
™ ust peeafor faeokk auu a
,iabit of long and persevering study. First efforts are
ever exceedingly defective, and must appear so even
to the writer, if he is possessed of an ingenuous mind.
In prose composition, it is natural that a greater ex-
cellence should be evinced, and by a far greater number
of persons, than in poetic composition ; and yet, as
far as our own experience goes, the contrary would
seem to be the fact. Our poetic correspondents far
exceed our prose contributors, and many of the former
class must, we fear, be charged with a misapplication of
talent. The writers no doubt mean well, but this would
forrn no adequate excuse for the insertion of their pro-
ductions in the columns of this journal. As they write
anonymously, at least as far as regards the public,
they have nothing to fear, but we are differently
situated, being pledged to furnish articles only of a
useful and agreeable nature. The employment may
be engaging to,the imagination, and agreeable to the
feelings, of these would-be literati, but can never help
them forward along their own path of life, nor prove
°f. benefit to others. But, by a judicious series of
efforts, guided by the same talents in the proper
diiection, they might well hope to attain to eminence
in the pursuit adapted to their powers. In place of
•further remarks from ourselves on this subject, we
shall extract, from a work entitled “ Thoughts on Man,”
the following apposite observations.
“ Little progress has yet been made in the art of
turning human creatures to the best account. Every
man lias his place, in which, if he can be fixed, the
most fastidious judge cannot look upon him with dis-
dain. But to effect this arrangement, an exact atten-
tion is required to ascertain the pursuit in which he
will best succeed. Every human creature, idiots and
extraordinary cases excepted, is endowed with talents,,
which, if rightly directed, would show him to be apt,
adroit, intelligent, and acute, in the walk for which his
organization especially fitted him.
There is however, a sort of phenomenon, by no
means of rare occurrence, which tends to place the
human species under a less favourable point of view.
Many men are forced into situations and pursuits ill
assorted to their talents, and by that means are exhi-
bited to their contemporaries in a light both despic-
able and ludicrous. But this is not all. Men are
not only placed by the absurd choice of their parents,
or an imperious concurrence of circumstances, in des-
tinations and employments in which they can never
appear to advantage : they frequently, without any
external complusion, select for themselves objects of
theii industry, glaringly unadapted to their powers,
and in which all their efforts must necessarily termi-
nate in miscarriage.
I remember a young man, who had been bred a
hair-dresser, but who experienced, as he believed, the
secret visitations of the Muse, and became inspired.
‘ With sad civility and aching head,’ I perused no
fewer than six comedies from the pen of this aspiring
genius, in no page of which I could discern any glim-
mering of poetry or wit, or in reality -could form a
guess what it was that the writer intended in his ela-
borate effusions. Every manager of a theatre, and
every publishing bookseller of eminence, can produce
you, in each revolving season, whole reams, almost
cartloads, of blurred paper, testifying the frequent re-
currence of the phenomenon. The cause of this pain-
ful mistake does not lie in the circumstance, that each
man has not from the hand of nature an appropriate
destination, a sphere assigned to him, in which, if life
should be prolonged to him, he might be secure of the
respect of his neighbours.
One of the most glaring infirmities of our nature is
discontent —one of the most unquestionable charac-
teristics of the human mind is the love of novelty.
We are satiated with those objects which make a part
of our business in every day, and are desirous of
trying something that is a stranger to us. But the
progress of a man of reflection will be, to a consider-
able degree, in the path he has already entered. If
he strikes into a new career, it will not be without
deep premeditation. He will attempt nothing wan-
tonly. He will carefully examine his powers, and see
for what they are adapted. The fool dashes in at


once. He obeys a blind unreflecting impulse. His
case bears a striking resemblance to what is related of
Oliver Goldsmith. Goldsmith was a man of the most
felicitous endowments. His prose flows with ease,
copiousness, and grace. His verses are among the
most spirited, natural, and unaffected in the English
language. Yet he was not contented. If he saw a
consummate dancer, he knew no reason why he
should not do as well, and immediately felt disposed
to essay his powers. If he heard an accomplished
musician, he undertook to enter the lists with him ;
and his failure in such attempts must necessarily have
been ludicrous.
The applause bestowed on others will often gene-
rate uneasiness and a sigh, in men least of all qualified
by nature to acquire similar applause. We are not
contented to proceed in the path of obscure usefulness
and worth. We are eager to be admired, and thus
often engage in pursuits for which perhaps we are of
all men least adapted. Each one would be the man
above him. And this is the cause why we see so
many individuals, who might have passed their lives
with honour, devote themselves to incredible efforts,
only that they may be made supremely ridiculous.
This is the explanation of a countless multitude of
failures that occur in the career of literature. Nor is
this phenomenon confined to literature. In all the
various paths of human existence that- appear to have
something in them splendid and alluring, there are
perpetual instances of daring adventures, unattended
with the smallest rational hope of success. In reality,
the splendid march of genius is beset with a thousand
difficulties. A multitude of unthought-of qualifications
are required ; and it depends at least as much upon
the nicely maintained balance of these, as upon the
copiousness and brilliancy of each, whether the result
shall be auspicious.”
THE BLEACHER.
Bleaching is the art by which those manufactures, which
have vegetable substances for their raw material, are freed
from the colouring matter with which such substances are
naturally combined, or accidentally stained ; and the pure
vegetable fibre, deprived of these coloured matters, is left to
reflect the different rays of light in due proportion, so as to
appear white.
Besides the spoils of animals, mankind, to supply their
natural want of covering, have, in all countries, had recoinse
to vegetable substances, preferring those whose fibres excelled
in strength, durability, and pliancy; and experience having
proved, that flax and cotton were well adapted to such pur-
poses, these substances have been very generally adopted, and
formed into such cloths as the skill and industry of the weavers
could execute.
It would soon be observed, that the action of water, together
with that of the sun and air, rendered those rude cloths whiter
than they were at their first formation ; and since the first step
towards refinement is to add beauty to utility, as the state of
society improved, a desire to give them a pure and spotless
white would naturally arise. The idea of white raiment being
the emblem of innocence and peace, which seems to have been
very clearly entertained, would make every means for facili-
tating the removal of natural or adventitious stains more
earnestly studied.
Accident would probably discover, that a certain degree of
putrid fermentation carried off colouring matter from vegetable
fibres. Hence the practice of macerating cloth in water, mixed
with putrid urine and the dung of domestic animals, which lias
been continued to our days.
From the earliest accounts we have of India, Egypt, and
Syria, it appears that these enlightened nations knew the
efficacy of natron, (the nitre of scripture,) an impure mineral
alkali, found in these countries, for combining with, and carry-
ing off, the colouring matters with which cloth is stained; and
it is still found in great abundance by the present inhabitants,
and used for the same purpose. We are also informed by
Pliny, that the ancient Gauls were acquainted with the use of
a lixivium, extracted from the ashes of burnt vegetables, as a
detergent, and knew how to combine this lixivium with animal
oil to form soap.
But though these nations appear to have acquired
some knowledge of the art of bleaching, the progress of
improvement which they made in it, when compared to the
advantages which some of them enjoyed, was very inconsider-
able. The same practices seem to have been handed down
from one generation to another, without any material improve-
ment. In India it would appear, that the art of bleaching, as
well as that of staining of cloths of various colours, are not in
greater perfection at present, than they are described to have
been in the days of Herodotus. Even in Europe, when the
arts, after they have been once introduced, have generally made
rapid progress, the art of bleaching made very slow advances,
till towards the end of the eighteenth century.
At this period the oxymuriatic acid, and its effects, were
discovered by Scheele ; and its application to the art of bleach-
ing, by Berthollet, gave it an impulse towards perfection
unknown in the history of any other art. It now became
evident that oxygen had an affinity with the colouring matters
with which cotton and linen manufactures are stained; and
that, by a proper use of the alkalies, along with the oxymu-
riatic acid, these colouring matters could be removed, and the
goods rendered wdiite, in a space of time almost instantaneous,
when compared with the former method of bleaching.
Upon these discoveries the present improved state of bleach-
ing is founded. The machinery and utensils used in bleaching
are various, according to the business done by the bleacher.
Where linen or heavy cotton cloths are whitened, and the
business is carried on to a considerable extent, the machinery
is both complicated and expensive. It consists chiefly of a
water-wheel, sufficiently powerful for giving motion to the
wash-stocks, dash-wheels, squeezers, &c. with any other ope-
rations where power is required.
After the process of washing by the dash-wheel, the water
is compressed from the cloth by means of squeezers. The
boilers used in bleaching are of the common form, having a
stop-cock at bottom for running off the waste ley. They are
commonly made of cast iron, and are capable of containing
from three hundred to six hundred gallons of water, according
to the extent of the business done.
The substances used in bleaching, are chiefly pot and pearl
ashes, soda, soap, oxymuriate of potash, oxymuriate of lime,
manganese, muriatic acid, and sulphuric acid.
The common operations of bleaching, consist of steeping,
bucking, boiling, immersion in the oxymuriatic acid, souring,
washing, &c.
Steeping is a process made use of for cleansing the cloths
designed to be bleached, for the substance used by the weavers
in their manufacture, and is principally effected by means of
an alkaline ley at a blood-heat.
Bucking is one of the most important operations in the
bleaching of linen goods: it consists in boiling the cloths in
caustic alkaline ley, by a heat gradually raised, and thereby
dissolving, and taking off their colouring matter.
Boiling, in the bleaching of linen cloth, is only used when


the goods are nearly white with pearl ashes alone, or with
pearl ashes along with soap, towards the end of the whitening
process.
Immersion in the oxymuriate of potash . The linens, after
being clean washed, are steeped in it for twelve hours, then
drained, and washed for being further bucked or boiled.
Souring is, in general, the last or finishing process in bleach-
ing, as afterwards the linens are only further washed in spring
water, in order to their being blued and made up for the
market.
In preparing the sour, in a large fir tub, lined with lead, as
much sulphuric acid is added to water as will give it the acidity
of strong vinegar. The acid and water must be well mixed
together before immersing the linens, which are generally
steeped in it for twelve hours.
Where washing is mentioned, it must be always understood
that the linen is taken to the wash-stocks, or dash-wheel, and
washed well in them for some hours. This part of the work
can never be overdone; and on its being properly executed,
between every part of the bucking, boiling, steeping in the
oxymuriatie acid, and souring, not a little of the success of
bleaching depends. By exposure, is meant that the linen
cloth is taken and spread upoa the bleach-green, for four, six,
or eight days, according as the routine of business calls for
the return of the cloth, in order to undergo further operations.
There are a variety of processes adopted for the bleaching
of goods of different degrees of fineness : muslin, for instance,
requiring a process varied from that adopted for coarse linen;
and more delicacy is still necessary in bleaching coloured
cottons and pulicates into which permanent colours are woven.
FIRST LOVE.
Among the few spots of greenness Avhich are found in
the path of mortality, few are so delightful, loA'ely,
and never to be forgotten, as the time when our hearts
first sAvellcd, and our bosoms heaved, under the tender
influence of love. There Avas a rapture in that part
of our being, the remembrance of which has outlived
“the battle and the breeze” of by-gone years—there
was sunshine clear and lovely then, Avhich often as it
may have since been overcast, still sheds lustre on the
past* —and Avas every other day of our existence to
be blotted from the tale of life, and we Avere no longer
to treasure in our memories the bright faces, and fairy
forms, o’er Avhich fancy loves to linger, we should,
above all, cling to most devotedly, and resign most
reluctantly, the remembrance of our first love. Oh !
there is a holy halo round that period, and a balmy
beauty on its memory, dear as our life’s tide, and valu-
able as our heart’s best feelings. It was the first
bubbling up of a fountain whose waters are far more
refreshing, than is the intoxicating draught of all
this Avorld calls good or great. And he who never
drank of this limpid stream, has never tasted genuine
nectar ; he Avho never inhaled love’s holy atmosphere,
has not yet breathed the air of heaven ; and he who
never saAV its glowing sunshine, must surely have
been “ born blind he may have basked beneath the
beaming of our southern sun, or reA'elled in the rays
of a tropical summer, but if he never saw the burning
brilliance of affection’s eye, to him, at least,
“ Suns rise, and planets shine, in vain.”
LoA 7 e is one of the few elements of pristine happiness
Avhich is still left to us. When each other light faded
to our race, and every other star disappeared from
our hemisphere, the star of love stayed still. It was
long the star of hope, and might ever be the star of
happiness. A star, this, which has lighted with its
lustre, and soothed with its soft brilliance, the lonely
path of suffering and sorrow. A star, whose gentle
beaming has supplied pathos to the poet, firmness to
the hero, vigour to the feeble, and a fitting theme for
eloquence and power. And if there is on earth a
happy family, or a peaceful neighbourhood, or a feel-
ing heart, it is the one inhabited by love.
Many persons have felt its blessings and benignity,
and such will readily agree with these sentiments,
but there are some who have steel’d their bosoms
against its influence, they have tried to banish it from
their hearts, and have succeeded ; with such, the very
fountain of their feelings is dried up, and they will
not, we are aware, pay homage to this shrine. They
tell us in proud hard-heartedness that love is a weak-
ness, and talk with disdain of the trammels of mar-
riage, and Avith triumph, of the delights of “ single
blessednessproclaiming at once on whose side the
weakness lies. Such characters may, if they please,
“ suiwey their empire, and behold their home”—and
a pretty home it is if destitute of a Avife; they may,
like the man on the solitary island, congratulate them-
sebves on their possessions, and say in his language,
“ I am monarch of all I survey,
My right there is none to dispute—
From the centre, all round to the sea
I am lord of the fowl and the brute
And we will readily allotv him the dominion of Avhich
he is so proud. Yes! he may be “ lord of the fowl
and the brute," for assuredly he is lord of nothing
higher, nor can his domain extend any further, for if
he has no higher feelings, even he himself cannot
belong to a higher class. Has he banished love
from his possessions, and thrown away affection’s
chain—then he may be free, but cannot be happy :
’tis true he is a monarch,
“ But oh the choice, what heart can doubt,
Of tents with love, or thrones, without.”
Virtuous love at any time, or under almost any cir-
cumstances, is a feeling calculated to give pleasure
and delight; and surely Ave are not saying too much
to declare it “ of all life’s stveets the very stveetest
yet.” And it is this knowledge of its value which
makes us look back with such pleasure to its first
development. Perhaps there Avere opposing parents,
or thwarting intruders, and we ,ha\ 7 e to be satisfied
with a stolen but expressive glance, a hasty Avord, or
a gentle pressure of the hand ; perhaps avc did not
dare to tell our love, yet still “ would dart from eye
to eye the tell-tale glance,” or if more fortunate and
bold, we dared in opposition to friends, or friendly-
faced enemies, to indulge our young hearts Avith
draughts of bliss—then there was the secret meeting,
and the trysting place, and the impassioned promise
—and the one dear, earnest, speechless, but volume-
telling pressure of the hand, perchance of the lip,
and the few words then spoken, AA r ere words, in
Avhich the heart was speaker, and the spirit, prompter.
“ Oh, who but can recall the eve they met
To breathe in some green walk their first young vow,
When summer flowers, with moon light dews were wet,
And gentle zephyrs fanned the mountain brow ;
And all was rapture then—which is but memory now.”
But possibly Ave Avere more fortunate still, and had
friends consenting, and parents unopposing, and with-
out a rival too ; then there was the gay greeting, and
the open reception, and the walk in ttvilight’s hour,
no longer a stolen one, though perhaps not much


sweeter on that account, and if the feelings were not
quite so deeply toned, that was compensated for by
the frequency with which they were indulged. These,
and a hundred nameless incidents of “field and flood”
—of jealous fears, and tlrwarted hopes, the unlucky
yet almost desirable disappointments which are ever
in the path of affection, these all tend to make the first
development of love, a pleasurable theme.
Yet it is not only to its first development that we
refer with pleasure, but w r e might trace it with equal
satisfaction through many a valley, and o’er many a
mountain of our history. Tis true, some have laid
the first object of their affection beneath the sod—
others never consummated their bliss by the happy
tie, but some have come up the wilderness with greater
ease and joy, because they came “ leaning on the arm
of their beloved and a hundred joyous homesteads
and a thousand happy families, make us refer with
emotions of pleasure to our first love !
“ Tis true that we behold no more
The valley where we met,
We do not see the hawthorn tree;
But how can we forget ?”
FREDERICK.
History.
ANCIENT HISTORY: SECTION XIV.
THE RETUBLIC OF THEBES.
1. While the two great republics of Greece, Athens
and Sparta, were thus visibly tending to decline, the
Theban republic emerged from obscurity, and rose
for a time to a degree of splendour eclipsing all its
contemporary states. The republic was divided by
faction, one party supporting its ancient democracy,
and the other aiming at the establishment of an oli-
garchy. The latter courted the aid of the Spartans,
who embraced that occasion to take possession of the
citadel. Four hundred of the exiled Thebans fled
for protection to Athens. Among these was Pelopi-
das, who planned and accomplished the deliverance
of his country. Disguising himself and tw T elve of
his friends as peasants, he entered Thebes in the
evening, and joining a patriotic party of the citizens,
they surprised the heads of the usurpation amid the
tumult of a feast, and put them all to death. Epami-
nondas, the friend of Pelopidas, shared with him in
the glory of this enterprise ; and attacking, with the
aid of 5,000 Athenians, the Lacedaemonian garrison,
drove them entirely out of the Theban territory, and
Pelopidas and Epaminondas were hailed as the de-
liverers of their country.
2. A war necessarily ensued between Thebes and
Sparta, in which the former had the aid of Athens.
This, however, was but for a season. Thebes singly
opposed the power of Sparta, and the league of Greece ;
but Epaminondas and Pelopidas were her generals.
The latter, amidst a career of glory, perished in an
expedition against the tyrant of Phersea. Epami-
nondas, triumphant at Leuctra and Mantinea, fell in
that last engagement, and with him expired the
glory of his country, 3G3 b.c. The ancient histo-
rians have ranked Epaminondas among the greatest
heroes and most illustrious characters of antiquity.
Athens and Sparta were humbled at the battle of
Mantinea. Thebes w'as victorious ; but she was
undone by the death of Epaminondas. All parties
were tired of the war; and Artaxerxes, more power-
ful among those infatuated states than in his own
dominions, dictated the terms of the treaty. It was
stipulated, that each power should retain what it
possessed ; and that the lesser states, now free from
the yoke of the greater, should remain so. The
Spartans alone refused their assent to this treaty,
because they were unwilling to relinquish that con-
trol which they had exercised over some of their
tributary cities.
3. Artaxerxes soon after died of a broken heart.
Darius his eldest son, together with fifty of his natural
brothers, had conspired against their father, but
their designs having been discovered, they were all
put to death. Ochus, his third son, succeeded him
by murdering his elder brother, and to secure his
possession he murdered all that remained of his kin-
dred. The treaty lately concluded among the states
of Greece was fatal in its consequences to the glory
of the nation, and it became a mass of unequal and
independent parts.
THE CARELESS WORD.
“ Alas! how light a cayse will move
Dissension between thSf hearts that love!
Hearts that the world in vain had tried,
And sorrow but more closely tied ;
That stood the storm when waves were rough.
Yet in a sunny hour fall off,
Like ships that have gone down at sea
When heaven was all tranquillity !
A something light as air—a look,
A word unkind or wrongly taken—
Oh I love, that tempests never shook,
A breath, a touch like this hath shaken.”
MOORE
“ A word is ringing thro’ my brain,
It was not meant to give me pain ;
It had no tone to bid it stay,
When other things had passed away;
It had no meaning more than all
Which in an idle hour fall:
It was, when first the sound I heard,
A lightly uttered careless word.
•* * *
Oh ! would to God I ne’er had heard
That lightly-uttered, careless word!”
HON. MRS. NORTON.
There are many ways of making love. Indeed, the
varieties of the art are endless—it may be called an
art, and certainly it is not only one of the fine arts,
but unequivocally the finest of all the arts. It would
be utterly impossible to imagine the diversities of that
sort that arise in the course of a three months’ court-
ship, from the dawn of the sensation to its final out-
break and confession, after which it may be said to
lose half its charms. You may make love with your
foot, as Sterne would say, and nobody in the world
but the Beloved would be the wiser of it. And then
how would she take such a strange and wondrously
intelligible medium of expression'? Ah! her blue
eyes, or deep hazel, or light ash, or whatever colour
they might be, would suddenly sparkle as if an electric
wire had touched her, and she would raise them with
their new-born thoughts springing up in them to look
into your face, not with a full gaze, but a half down-
cast and thrilling glance of an instant, like a sun-
flash, and then a blush, burning and sudden would
rush into her face, and she would unconsciously
squeeze her beautiful lips together, and then turn away
her head suddenly as if provoked at having been be-
trayed into a recognition of the meaning of your
familiar, and, we must add, contraband mode of


awakening her feelings. And how many silly men
are there who, tongue-tied, make love with their
hands and their eyes. Love certainly is not eloquent.
It cannot talk to, but it can talk for ever of the
object. That is to say, while the early season is full
of its clouds and showers, and the wooer is not over-
confident of the promise of the future. But when
the sun breaks out and there is an assurance of hope,
then even the timid grow brave and become as gar-
rulous as if they had practised delicious nonsense all
their lives long. Yet it is odd, that any man with
the passion, which is ecstatic even in its uncertainty,
throbbing like a mad pulse in his bosom, can sit,
statue fashion, all dulness and melancholy, looking,
and moping, and dreaming, while the fawn-like Being
is moving round him full of grace, and joy, and
beauty. A man, the most impassioned on all other
subjects, becomes very grave when his heart is in
question, just as if he felt, which he does not, for he
knows nothing about it, that in that transition of the
nature, his whole world was about to be changed,
and his soul translated into a different order of ex-
istence. One would think that his sadness was con-
templation, and that his thoughtfulness was thought:
but it is no such thing. 'His mind—with all respect
for nature’s laws—is a vacuum. He is a person ab-
sorbed iu spite of himself. He neither thinks, nor
wishes, nor fears, nor hopes. He does nothing but
look stupid, and the best of it is, that all the while
he is secretly persuaded he is doing miracles within
himself, towards the accomplishment of some vague
achievement in the arrangement and subjugation of
his feelings. The truth is, love is a paradox. It
acts by contradictions. All we know is, that its
force is centrifugal. We might as well attempt to
reap the winds, count the motes in the sun, or swim
in the air, as to trace its rise and progress. The
catechism of love—that is, Farquhar’s—says, arbi-
trarily, that it enters at the eyes. The very notion
is profane, for it limits the universal influence of the
passion. It enters every where ; it penetrates the tops
of the fingers, for we often fall in love with a touch
of the hand—it is born in the sound of the voice, for
we often fall in love with a musical tone —it comes,
we know not how—and goes, sometimes, we care not
whither.
Now there is not a single mood or tense of love
that was not practised over and over again between
Charles Torrens and Edith Esdaile in the course of
their wooing. They believed they loved each other
better than ever any young people loved each other
before; and we believe that they loved each other
quite as deeply as any young people can love. And
they were indefatigable in cultivating all possible
opportunities of increasing that stock of affection.
Charles would have paid his morning visits at day-
break, and spun them out until they might be called
visitations, if a certain sense of the usages of society
had not checked his ardour. As it was, he called
every day at the house of the lady’s father, and came
again every evening with as much punctuality and
certainty as the waters of the ocean ebb and flow.
And it was extraordinary how fertile he was in ex-
cuses for this undeviating attention. He was always
prepared with something new to show, or to talk
about; with a scrap of intelligence for the old gen-
tleman, or the lady-mother ; or, perhaps, with an
apology for something he had left undone, and a pro-
mise to do it the next day, so as to create out of one
visit a pretext for another. But he always made an
excuse of some description, for which there was
scarcely necessity. But love makes one very con-
scious and suspicious of every movement; the lover
imagines himself to be so embarrassed that everybody
must perceive it, and he is, therefore, constantly em-
ployed in devising cunning schemes for eluding and.
evading observation; forgetting that the more he
struggles to escape it, the more h<* drarvs it down
upon him.
Edith Esdaile was not a whit less ardent and clever
in her own way. She was very pretty and amiable,
and had, of course, many admirers, all of whom were
pushed from their stools by the fortunate Charles
Torrens. But in order that she might not appear
particular, which she could not help appearing in
spite of all her tact, she occasionally did martyrdom
at a window with one of the beaux; or sat at her
work-table for ten minutes together w r hile another
turned over the leaves of her album, and talked
commonplace about Lord Byron; or sang some espe-
cial ballad at the especial request of a third, whom
she unfeelingly permitted to hang over her at the
piano while she performed penance. These little
mischievous disguises of the real sta<e of her heart she
considered perfect, and thought that her plot against
the eyes of the experienced people about her could
not be detected. As we before intimated, there was
not the least necessity for all this finesse, because
neither Mr. nor Mrs. Esdaile, nor anybody else, would,
or could have objected to receive Charles Torrens as
the accepted suitor, for he was, in all respects, worthy
of favour; but there is a crookedness or perversity
in love that will not allow things to take their own
smooth, open, and natural course. Lovers will not
permit themselves to be made happy too soon, or too
easily. They must anave at their happiness through
difficulties and pains. The sweet must not be tasted
until the palate is prepared to appreciate it by a few
trials of the bitter. The parched traveller enjoys the
blessed spring in the desert all the more gratefully
after the fatigues and privations of his disastrous
journey over the blistering sands. So lovers make
their own journey of troubles that the gush of the
fresh spring of the heart may come upon them with
an enhanced delight.
That Kdith was fondly attached to Charles, there
could be no doubt. It was because she loved him to
such an extremity, that she tortured herself to try to
conceal it from all the world beside •, for there was
so much poetry in her nature that she thought love
was the more rapturous when it was stolen in secret;
and that such love as hers was a feeling too deep and
sacred to be alloyed by contact with drawing-room
gossip, and the vulgar whispers, jests, and inuendos
of general society. When, indeed, they were alone ,
and Charles pressed her pretty hand, and looked into
her face, and uttered a few broken sounds that broke
upon his lips, hardly taking the shape of words, then
the tears would start into her eyes, and she would
drop her head upon her bosom, while her swan-like
neck, drooping before him, made an unconscious
token of how powerless she was in his presence, and
of the complete resignation of her whole being to his
sovereignty. There was no.language could paint
that devotion ; nor did either of them try to explain
what they fell. It was articulated in every look and


motion. It was the grace and beauty of their lives,
and not to be defined, lest in the process of descrip-
tion its nameless charm and power might escape.
Much as she wished before strange faces to seem in-
different, she failed to accomplish her seeming. Her
eyes involuntarily followed every turn of his: every
moment she caught herself looking at him : if he
stirred even gently and in the most distant part of the
room, she was attracted, as it were, by some sympathy
of the nerves. In the intervals of his absence she
would occupy herself in watching the time-piece; in
thinking of what he had last said and done ; in trying
to conjure new meanings out of his most trivial words ;
in going over the whole of their interviews, and
putting minute facts together, comparing and ana-
lyzing them for the sake of extracting the trembling
secret from them in all possible combinations and
changes, and in speeding onwards with her flying
thoughts into the future, hurrying over a whole life
of dreamy events in a second of time, and making
a world of revery in which to dwell with that pledged
heart for ever and for ever. What a sad thing it is
for a young lady to be restless and fidgety; and if
you ask her the cause of it, to be answered by a direct
denial of the fact, and an assertion that she was never
more tranquil and contented. Edith could not stay
quietly in one place for a quarter of an hour through-
out the dreary mornings. One of her resources, a
foolish one too, was to go up into her own room,
shut herself in, and repeat the name of Charles in
every possible modulation of voice ; sometimes sweetly
and confidingly, then reproachfully, then angrily,
then melting down into forgiveness, and then raur-
muringly, as if in restored happiness; and she would
sit and listen to the echoes as if they were a voice
from the spheres making music for her solitude. Of
a truth, she thought Charles the prettiest name in
the world !
When Charles first felt a novel pleasure in Edith’s
society, he philosophized a good deal on the subject,
and laboured hard to demonstrate to himself that it
was merely an accidental feeling, and not one of a
permanent or serious character. He endeavoured
even to deprive the image which chance had mira-
culously imprinted on his heart of its brilliancy, and
to reduce it to as plain and every day a picture as
he could. He knew a hundred girls who were in-
finitely more beautiful, more agreeable, and more
instructed in the embellishments of life. Edith’s face
was not remarkably handsome ; she certainly had ex-
pressive eyes, there was no denying that; she had a
pretty, even a most tempting mouth ; but then, the
test of her features were commonplace and inhar-
monious: her figure was unquestionably graceful—
she had that manner and air of natural elegance which
could neither be imparted nor acquired ; but there
were defects, even in her fine form, which he thought
he saw r distinctly : and, relying upon these drawbacks,
he assured himself that he was not in love, or that,
at all events, even if he did acknowledge a slight par-
tiality, it was but a mere agitation on the surface,
like that which the breeze makes when it touches the
flowers, and passes on. He rvas very heroic in his
resolution not to be enslaved. He was determined
not to fall in love- But these resolutions and deter-
minations were idle. A man might as well prendre
In lane avec les denis, as battle with the shadows of
his own imagination in his way. The passion was
fixed in his heart beyond redemption, by the time
that he had quite satisfied himself of its impossibility.
He and Edith had exchanged hearts, even while they
were severally reasoning themselves into a belief that
they were perfectly indifferent to each other, and that
there were twenty others, at both sides, whom they
liked infinitely better. In the first hours of love the
world is seen through a medium that resembles a
diamond, in which bright stars twinkle and dance,
confounding and confusing, by their very brilliancy,
the actual forms to which the sight is in vain directed.
This mutual delusion progressed rapidly. The
lovers had talked to each other only by signs. It
happened that they had never been thrown together
so as that Charles could have taken advantage of a
silent moment to lead to the subject w'hich, although
nearest to his heart, he yet did not confess to himself.
But stone walls, brass gates, locks, and bolts, and
bars, are to true love as water to the keel of the ship,
or as the thin air to the cleaving wings of the eagle.
Love will make its own opportunities. It hath such
an object to gain that it sees no impediments w'hich it
can fancy to be insurmountable. And it is so in-
cessantly employed in its own affairs that it is sure
in the long-run to cheat the guardianship of cautious
and wary protectors, which must sometimes sleep or
nod. Love is always awake inventing, while even
the lynx occasionally shuts its eyes, and pauses on
its watch.
An opportunity did occur when Charles and Edith
met alone. Their meeting was the more lonely
and secure because it was in the midst of a busy and
prattling throng—in the crowd and pressure of a
ball. They danced together. In the dance their
eyes met just as she had lightly placed her hand
within his. The train that had hitherto lain coldly
on each of their hearts was fired in that look ; its
electric quiver rushed to their fingers—he pressed her
hand, which suddenly trembled in his grasp, and a
second glance at the disturbed features that were in-
stantly flushed with emotion, confirmed their mutual
impressions. What more could have been accom-
plished in a year of formal advances, of regular
declarations, of daily correspondence, and careful
solicitude ?
They retired to a seat w'hen the quadrille was
ended. Then came the dangerous moment. Their
secret was already betrayed. There was not a thought
or a hope in either of their minds that was not as
clearly mapped out before them both, as if their
thoughts and hopes were translated into language and
written down. Did he venture to break the ice on
that occasion of delicious wonder'? No. lie could
not speak to her : they sat together silently, looking
very silly in the eyes of everybody else, but enjoying
in the paradise of their own feelings a rapture which
the sage world that has outgrown those joys heart-
lessly mocks at and condemns. The discovery had
taken Edith by surprise. She was not prepared for
so overwhelming a tide of affection. A new sense
had sprung up in her young mind, and seized upon
her whole being. In a moment, as a gust of wind
flutters the leaf and spreads a strange colour over its
surface, the sudden knowledge of Charles’ love
touched and changed her nature. She was no longer
the gay, careless Edith. At that instant, and pro-
bably for five minutes in continuance, she looked as
sombre and serious as if some great affliction had


befallen her. But it was the excess of mixed happi-
ness, and pain she knew not why, and wonder, and
doubt, and fear, and flurry. She shook it off, to be
sure, quickly, for it is a part of female education to
disguise the heart through all its preliminary stages.
However a lady may feel—and ladies do feel as
deeply as men w r ho sneer, protest, and look savage —
she must not appear to feel, lest the w'ayward and
exacting gentleman may relax in his devotion, or
require more than she can grant.
Before that night’s revelry was closed, Charles had
pressed the hand of his young Edith many times—
but he did not venture upon words. It was not
needful. When they parted, they understood each
other better than if they had spoken about the matter,
which, at best, they must have done but awkwardly.
How speedily and surely do the tokens of love pass
from eye to eye, Like the signs of the telegraph they
traverse the air, unintelligible to all but to those who
communicate and receive them.
The destiny of the lovers was decided in that night’s
silent recognition. They met every day afterwards
for months, and many days they met alone. But
still for many weeks their thoughts did not take the
shape of confession. They kept hovering upon the
verge of avowal, desiring yet avoiding the mutual
admission, jealous of every surrounding obstacle, yet
timid to remove them, and preserving by all the arts
of suppression and ingenious torture that twilight of
the mind in which visions seem to float before the
eyes in their most ethereal and love-like forms. They
were afraid to trust to the day-light of open acknow-
ledgment, lest it might destroy the illusions in which
they revelled. Still, they talked at the passion,
although their strange and capricious fears did not
permit them to fill up the delineation with figures.
“ Do you not admire my cousin Mary ?•” said Edith,
one evening, as they sat together alone.
“ Yes,” replied Charles, “ she is pretty, and talks
with spirit; but ” he paused.
“ There is great virtue in that but,” returned Edith.
“ She wants the essential loveliness, at least, in
my eyes.”
“ Pray what may that be ?” inquired Edith, trying
to speak indifferently, but all the while colouring
deeply.
“ Cannot you guess, Edith?” he asked.
“ I ! —how should I V’
“ I did think,” replied Charles, “ that you knew,
at least, some of my thoughts, and that thought above
all the rest!”
She stammered out something about the difficulty
of knowing people’s thoughts before they were uttered.
Charles did not allow her to finish the sentence.
“The thought was one, Edith, dear Edith!” he
said, “ in which, perhaps, nobody would take an
interest but myself. I say, perhaps—l am not sure
it may be, that there is one to whom my aspira-
tions are not entirely valueless.”
Poor Edith hardly stirred, lest she should betray
the tremour that was at that moment in her heart.
She tried to look at the garden, as if she saw the
flowers, and Avas thinking of them, or of anything,
rather than that Avhich she hoped, yet dreaded.
“Ah, Edith! my thoughts all run in the one
channel!” said Charles, after a pause of mutual
embarrassment, in which both lovers believed that
they had discovered a new charm in each other, “ and
I am very proud of a feeling, which, unhappy and
luckless if it be, is still an unsullied delight in soli-
tude, and a companion to me in society, where I feel
no other sympathy.”
“ No other, Charles!” said Edith, hastily : but re-
treating from her precipitancy, she added, “ you are
surrounded by friends, and you, certainly, have full
measure of kindness from everybody.”
“ Yes, I am treated kindly by everybody ; but
that does not satisfy the longings of my heart—the
yearnings of a nature that is boundless in its stores
of affection. The poor slave, Edith, whose prison
window fronts the sun and the green hills, upon
which he looks daily, is not satisfied with gazing—
he is ever, ever thinking of his ransom.”
“ And some such ransom, I suppose,” returned
Edith, Avho was naturally puzzled by the inappo-
siteness of her lover’s simile, “ you were thinking of
just now.”
“ It was what I am always thinking of—what she
should be whose love should crown my life.”
“ That would be a captivity, and not a ransom,”
said Edith.
“ Nay, if you will argue that point, I am content.
The poet says, and poets are the best judges, that
there is
No freedom like serving thee,
O woman!
And I believe him. But I dislike the way in w hich
he says it; for it looks as if he would serve the sex
rather than one object. It is hardly better than a
declaration of French gallantry, which I despise. 1
would serve but one, and that one ”
“ Should, of course, be a paragon!” interrupted
Edith, again trembling as she thought she approached
the disclosure.
“ I know,” said Charles, “ you think I look for
perfection, that I expect impossibilities, that I want
some visionary excellence, and ”
“I only jested; I did not think at the moment
that ”
“ So grave, Edith —I am not grave.”
“ This instant you looked very sad, and now you
are really laughing,” she returned, her mouth pout-
ing a sort of reproach,
“ Ah! Edith,” he replied, his voice sinking into
its softest tones, “ you possess the power—l mean, the
skill—to—to—change mirth into tears at will—and
back again, dear Edith, too. But this is very foolish.
I cannot account for being so ridiculous, and so full
of moods. Seriously I will tell you what sort of a
creature she should be to be mine. She must first,
Edith—first, and above all other graces or beauties,
she must be pure in mind, in word, in act. Pure as
the snow when it descends into the mountain torrent,
and ere it has been swept in the fury of the foam
over the soil of earth. She must have no thought—
not even such vanishing thoughts as self-love in idle
moments flings across the mind, like a breath upon
glass—she must have no thought of others. I must
be to her the world, as she to me the universe. I
must trust to her excelling purity and singleness of
heart for that; to her tried and exalted devotion ; her
unabating love of all that is good and gentle ; her
strength of character, her goodness, and her pride.
Then I would have her kind to everybody, but con-
fiding to me alone. Her general-kindness should not
be tinged with familiarity, but rather thrown out


like a light, the rays, and not the warmth, of which
should be felt. Being pure, and young, and beau-
tiful, she should have an intellect to embellish all,
and to give that nameless grace to her speech and
actions which fades not with the roses of her cheek,
or the lustre of the eye. Oh! what a life would it
be with such a one to rear her tender feelings into
mature and lasting principles ; to watch the growth
and upward springing of that sweet and divine spirit
into its proper sphere of love and honour ; to tend.it
with delicate watchfulness, and unceasing ardour ;
and to look back, when that career was drawing to its
close, upon the bright line of untainted happiness
such a lot had traced.”
As he finished, his voice became agitated, and he
drew his hand painfully over his eyes. Poor Edith
was equally touched, and had scarcely any more
command of herself, but feeling that she ought to say
something, she said, unwittingly, the most dangerous
thing she could have hit upon.
“ You speak in the language of romance, Charles;
there—is—no such—being living —as you describe.”
“ There is, Edith,” exclaimed Charles, “ there is
such a one —all excellence. Of a nature so pure, so
lofty, so lovely, that I despair—l despair ”
Her eyes at that moment were resting on his face —
her cheeks were sadly flushed, and her lips were
quivering with emotion. It was a sight to move even
a cold spectator, to see how they looked at each other
for a moment—just for one moment —and the con-
fession was ended. They did not speak a word, but
Charles raised his arm half-way to hers, and she,
with a bubbling sigh breaking through her lips, gra-
dually sank her head upon his breast. Then both
his arms were twined round her, and tears gushed
from his eyes, and his manly face became red and
pale by turns, and then, after a foolish struggle to
repress their agitation, they both wept aloud together.
It is astonishing how this coming to the point, and
discovering the fact, of which you were before per-
fectly aware, but which had not been regularly
announced, eases the mind, and unlocks, as it were,
all the clasps and springs that bound up the heart.
A man begins to breathe after he has declared him-
self. He sits easier on his chair, and walks across
the room with an air of negligee as if he had already
a property in the lady, believing —for most men have
so much vanity—that a declaration of love on his
part is but the hint to submission on hers. To know
that you love and are loved is, after all, a very deli-
cious sensation. It lifts you above the vulgar herd.
It gives you a new interest in life, apart from the
rest of the world, complete in itself, and crowded
with trains of delight that seem to stretch onward
through an illimitable future. In fact, there is no
end to the odd and pleasant fancies that gallopade
through the head, when the consciousness of having
committed yourself beyond redemption has entered it.
Charles and Edith had that sort of swimming of ideas
for many days after their mutual avowal. They
talked fast and foolishly : were in the most extra-
vagant spirits ; and appeared to feel as if the room
were dancing round them. Charles broke the spring
of his watch in an impetuous attempt to wind it up,
and Edith could not get the strings of her harp into
tune, although she screwed, and screwed, and sounded
them for hours together.
The lovers met every day, and at all hours.
Whenever they could, they stole away to enjoy the
felicity of their own thoughts.
“ I like you best,” said Charles, one evening, “ in
that lilac dress: it suits your delicate complexion
best: besides its gauze draperies that float round it
like light clouds, break away the outlines of your
figure, and give you a still more sylph-like look.”
It was but yesterday, dear Charles,” she replied,
“ that you thought I should always wear white.
You said that when a certain time comes, you would
make me wear plain white roses in my hair, and
white muslin with the simplest ribbons. You see
hoAV capricious you are.”
“ Dear Edith, not capricious. The truth is I love
you in every colour—but always think that that in
which you are present to me is the most becoming.
After all, it is not the dress that sets you off to ad-
vantage, but you who give to the dress its charm.
In any dress you look beautiful in my eyes, and if I
wish you ever to appear in one particular dress, it is
only another way of saying that I wish you ever to
be to me the same.”
And so I will, dearest Charles. Ah ! you see
how soon we learn to give utterance to thoughts,
from the expression of which we shrank so recently
with fear and apprehension.”
“ Because, sweet love, we were then upon the wide
waters of doubt, and the winds were upon us, and we
feared the wreck of all we possessed. But we are
I now like the ship in harbour: no rough winds can
| reach us here ; the sea beneath us is smooth and
placid: we are as firm as the solid rock.”
Some months passed away in this rapturous dal-
liance. Never were lovers more perfectly happy.
They had not a wish unprovided for. And as the
time approached when, of necessity, their attachment
was to be consecrated by vows, their love of each
other increased. It was a fortunate construction of
both their' natures, that they were not only loveable
for their qualities of goodness, but that the love of
them grew upon itself, for their goodness never ap-
peared to diminish, but, on the contrary, to increase,
like the fabled fountain of the necromancer, even with
the rich tides it daily poured forth.
( To be continued.)
V arieties.
Cheerfulness. — A woman may be of great assistance to
her husband in business, by wearing a cheerful smile continu-
ally upon her countenance. A man’s perplexities and gloomi-
ness are increased a hundred fold when his better halt moves
about with a continual scowl upon her brow. A pleasant
cheerful woman is a rainbow set in the sky when her husband’s
mind is tossed with storms and tempests ; but a dissatisfied
and fretful wife, in the hour of trouble, is like one of those
fiends who delight to torture lost spirits. — Dickens.
A Country Lad making a furious assault upon a hot apple
pie, burned his mouth until the tears ran down ; his com-
panion asked him why he wept ? “ Only,” said lie, “ because
it is just come to my mind that my grandmother died this day
twelve-month.” “ Phoo,” said the other, “is that all?” so, -
whipping a large piece into his mouth, he quickly sympathised
with his friend ; who, seeing his eyes full, with a malicious
sneer asked him why he wept ? “ Because you were not
hanged the same day your grandmother died.”
Giving Warning. —The following is a verbatim copy of a
notice given by a servant girl to her mistress, after a quarrel,
to leave her service:—“ It don’t magnify conspulion about it,
for 1 am contermined to leave, therefore divide yourself by this
day week. —Eliza.”
Blessed are they who have favours to bestow, for they
shall be shunned of no man!


The Moralist.
FATHER.
Consider thou, who art a parent, the importance of thy trust:
the being thou hast produced, it is thy duty to support.
Upon thee also it may depend, whether the child of thy
bosom shall be a blessing or a curse to thyself; a useful or a
worthless member of the community.
Prepare him early with instruction, and season his mind
with the maxims of truth.
Watch the bent of his inclination, set him right in his youth,
and let no evil habit gain strength with his years.
So shall he rise like a cedar on the mountains; his head
shall be seen above the trees of the forest.
A wicked son is a reproach to his father; but he that doeth
right is an honour to his grey hairs.
The soil is thine own, let it not want cultivation ; the seed
which thou sowest, that also expect to reap.
Teach him obedience, and he shall bless thee ; teach him
modesty, and he shall not be ashamed.
Teach him gratitude, and he shall receive benefits; teach
hint charity, and he shall gain love.
Teach him temperance, and he shall have health; teach him
prudence, and fortune shall attend him.
Teach him justice, and he shall be honoured by the world ;
teach him sincerity, and his own heart shall not reproach him.
Teach him diligence, and his wealth shall increase : teach
him benevolence, and his mind shall be exalted.
Teach him science, and his life shall be useful ; teach him
religion, and his death shall be happy.
MORAL MAXIMS.
ALPHABETICALLY ARRANGED.
No. 16.
A profitable religion never yet wanted proselytes.
A proud look makes foul work in the finest face.
A quiet conscience sleeps in thunder.
A reconciled friend is a double enemy.
A rich fool is a wise man’s treasure.
A rich mouthful, a heavy groan.
A rogue’s throat smells of hemp.
.Arrogance is a weed that grows mostly on a dunghill.
Art and science have no enemies but those who are ignorant.
A runaway monk never praises his convent.
As a bird is known by his note, so is a man by his discourse.
As good do nothing as to no purpose.
Ignorance how far Sinful. —As, where Ignorance is
removable , it is culpable ; and, where it can be removed, it
ought to be : so, where knowledge is attainable, it is obligatory;
and, where it can be acquired, it equally ought. So that, where
Knoivledge is a Duty, Ignorance is a Sin. — JSibloclc.
Secrecy. —The rules that I propose concerning secrecy,
and from which I think it not safe to deviate, without long and
exact deliberation, are—Never to solicit the knowledge of a
secret. Not willingly, nor without many limitations, to accept
such confidence when it is offered. When a secret is once
admitted, to consider the trust as of a very high nature, im-
portant as society, and sacred as truth, and therefore not to be
violated for any incidental convenience, or slight appearance
of contrary fitness. — Rambler.
Sincerity is to speak as we think; to do as we pretend,
and profess ; to perform and make good what we promise;
and really to be what we would seem to appear to be.— Tillotson.
Self-government. —Do small faults, continually repeated,
always retain their diminutiveness ? Is a bad temper, which
is never repressed, no worse after years of indulgence?— H.
More.
Fame. —Let us satisfy our own consciences, and trouble not
ourselves by looking for fame. If we deserve it, we shall at-
tain to it: if wc deserve it not, we cannot force it. The praise
bad actions obtain, dies soon away; if good deeds are at first
unworthily received, they are afterwards more properly appre-
ciated.— Seneca.
He that lives without fear shall die without hope-
Time. —Man wastes his mornings in anticipating his after-
noons, and he wastes his afternoons in regretting his mornings.
Abstinence. —There are two methods of being sober; one
is by moderation in drinking intoxicating liquors, and the
other total abstinence from them. The moderation plan is
difficult, unsafe, and uncertain. The abstinence one is easy,
safe, and sure.
Select Poetry.
THE SONNET.
[From the Spanish of Lope de Vega.]
Viol ante says, a Sonnet I must write,—
1 never felt so frighten’d as to day ;
A sonnet must have fourteen lines, they say—•
Behold! while joking, three I’ve finished quite.
While groping for a word to rhyme aright,
The second quatrain is half-written—nay,
When to the first tiercet I’ve found my way,
There’s nothing in the quatrains can me fright.
Now for the first tiercet: I should suppose
That in the proper style I have begun it,
Since with this line I bring it to a close.
Now for the second : lo ! I enter on it —
Methinks I’m in the thirteenth line—here goes
The fourteenth—count them:—right—a perfect Sonnet!
A SONNET.
By Sir Aubrey De Vere.
She whom this heart must ever hold most dear—
This heart, in happy bondage held so long—
Began to sing : at first, a gentle fear
Rosied her countenance ; for she is young,
And he who loved her most of all was near :
But when at last her voice grew clear and strong,
Oh what a fountain of delicious song
Went bubbling from her lips into the air!
Her little hands were sometimes flung apart,
And sometimes palm to palm together prest;
While rapid blushes, rising from her breast,
Kept time with that entrancing melody ;
A music to the sight! I, standing by,
Received the falling fountain in my heart.
THE CHILD’S FIRST GRIEF.
Oh ! call my brother back to me,
I cannot play alone;
The summer comes with flower and bee,
Where is my brother gone ?
The butterfly is glancing bright
Across the sunbeam’s track,
1 care not now to chase its flight ;
Oh ! call my brother back !
The flowers run wild, the flowers we sow’d
Around our garden tree,
Our vine is drooping with its load;
Oh ! call him back to me !
He would not hear thy voice fair child,
He may not come to thee,
The face that once like spring-time smil’d,
On earth no more thoul’t see.
A rose’s brief bright life of joy
Such unto him was given :
Go ! thou must play alone, my boy,
Thy brother is in Heaven !
And has he left his birds and flow’rs,
And must I call in vain ?
And thro’ the long long summer hours
Will he not come again ?
And by the brook and in the glade
Are all our wand’rings o’er?
Oh ! while my brother with me play’d
Would I had loved him more !
Memoriler.
THE WILD FLOWER.
Despise not thou the wild flower—small it seems,
And of neglected growth, and its light bells
Hang carelessly on every passing gale ;
Yet it is finely wrought, and colours there
Might shame the Tyrian purple, and it bears
Marks of a care eternal and divine :
Duly the dews decend to give it food,
The sun revives it drooping, and the showers
Add to its beauty, and the airs of heaven
Are ’round it for delight.— lbid.


iEottce.
The Editor does not hold himself responsible for the opinions and
assertions contained in the correspondence and contributions in-
serted in the Colonial Literary Journal.
JEottce to ©omspontrcnts.
“ Mhf.” —We suppress our intended remarks on the quality and
nature of this writer's effusions, and beg, instead thereof, to
draw his attention to our leading article. To “ Caledonia,”
also, we wish to intimate the same, but as regards his last effort
only.
‘ H’s” compositions are under consideration.
All communications must be addressed to “ The Editor of the
Colonial Literary Journal, General Printing Office, 133,
King-street East,” (postpaid.)
dEotke to ©ourttrp Subscribers.
Those of our Country Subscribers, who have omitted to pay the
last Quarter’s Subscription, are requested to pay the same to
the nearest Agent of the Colonial Literary Journal. And all
Subscribers are respectfully reminded that the Subscription for
the present Quarter is made payable in advance. Those who
consider the expenses necessarily attendant, during the first few
months , on a publication of this nature, will not hesitate to
oblige the publishers in this respect. Remittances by letter are
requested to be made post-paid, as it will be obvious that the
postage of a letter will cause a serious deduction to the publishers
from the small amount of a quarterly subscription.
THE METHODS USED FOR THE EXTRACTION
OF METALS FROM THEIR ORES.
[Continued.]
Silver was known and used in very ancient times,
though not so much esteemed then as by us at the
present day. Silver is found in mines, sometimes in
a pure state, in a mass, and sometimes in crystals ;it
is also found combined with gold or copper, and so
frequently mixed with galena, that lead is seldom
free from traces of silver. Ten per cent has been
found in some of the specimens sent here from South
Australia, but this must not be deemed a common
average. It is extracted from its ores by a similar
process of amalgamation as the gold, and is also
assayed in the same manner as that metal. It has
the clearest whitest colour of all the metals and will
receive a lustre next in brightness to steel. It is not
quite so malleable as gold, the leaves of silver are
therefore thicker than gold leaves; when it is quite
pure it is soft and may be cut with a knife. When
it is red hot it will melt, but it does not oxidise by
exposure to air or moisture, yet, when melted in open
vessels, it will absorb oxygen in great quantity,
amounting to twenty-tvo times its bulk, and parts
with it again gradually as it cools and becomes solid.
When leaves of silver or fine wire are burnt with elec-
tricity or other ardent heat, there will arise a beautiful
display of white sparks. Nitric acid will dissolve
silver, reducing it to an oxide, which oxide, thus united
with the acid, forms a salt known by the name of
lunar caustic. This is used for burning away the
diseased parts of flesh from any unhealthy wound.
Lead is also a metal of great antiquity ;it is seldom
found in a pure state, but in combination with
sulphur it occurs in great quantity, and generally
contains some silver. The term galena is applied to
lead which is found mixed with sulphur. This ore,
when reduced by roasting to the state of a coarse
powder, is heated in a furnace which bounds from one
side to the other, and is called a reverberatory furnace;
and in this manner it becomes so shaken, that as it
melts, the higher parts or slag ascend to the surface,
and the melted lead remains at the bottom. Lead
has a bluish grey colour, and when first cut from
the earth it has a strong nitre, but soon tarnishes by
exposure to the atmosphere. It is both malleable and
ductile, and therefore very fit for the purposes to
which it is so frequently applied. It does not attract
the oxygen from water, and it is therefore that it is
so much used for cisterns and pipes for conveying
water from place to place. When lead is first heated,
it is grey, when more so, it will be yellow, and when
it is completely saturated with oxygen, it will be
found a puce-coloured oxide. Other metals also
change their colours during oxidation. The oxide of
lead is called red lead, the oxide of iron is called
ochre. The oxides of metals can be dissolved by
acids, but no metals can be dissolved by acids without
having been previously oxidised.
Iron is also a metal that was well known in ancient
times, the first mention of it in scripture is in the
time of Moses, when speaking of the bedstead of Og
the last of the race of giants, of whom it is said, “ his
bedstead was a bedstead of iron, and that nine cubits
was the length and four cubits was the breadth
thereof.” Pure native iron is seldom found, for even
meteoric iron which is deemed the purest is always
combined with nickel and cobalt. Combined with
sulphur and oxygen it is very abundant, indeed it is
so wisely and wonderfully ordered that this useful
metal is found diffused almost universally in the
earth. Many minerals contain it, and all animals
and plants. The best iron is supplied from Sweden
and India. The iron used in England is chiefly
obtained from coal mines. Minerals which contain
such a quantity as render them worth working are
called ores of iron. The extracting of iron from these
ores is effected by the process of roasting already
described. After it is roasted down to a coarse powder,
burning coke and heated lime are added to it: the
burning coke attracts the oxygen, and the lime melts
and unites with its impurities, rising to the surface as
slag. The whole mass being thus fused or melted,
the metal descends, and the slag forms a stratum above
it, which protects it from the air, while the melted
iron runs through a hole at the bottom into a bed of
sand placed there to receive it. The iron thus ob-
tained is called cast iron. To make cast iron fit for
superior purposes, it is heated again, when any re-
maining impurities will rise once more to the surface
and are removed ; as the purity increases the iron be-
comes solid. It is then hammered while hot, by
which it is pressed together so as greatly to increase
its tenacity and strength.
It must be evident from this brief recital of the
working of iron, that no outlay is necessary, nay we
see the poorest person will make a subsistence by its
means, and as an abundant supply may be obtained
in this country, much profit might be made by the
more general manufacture of tools and household
utensils of iron.
Iron is of a grey colour with a fine lustre, which
can be greatly heightened by polishing ; it is not so
malleable as other metals, but it exceeds all others in
strength, it cannot be made into fine leaves, but it may
be drawn into very small wires. An iron wire will
support more than twice the weight which a gold or
silver wire of the same thickness w r ould bear. When
iron is heated to redness, it is soft and jdiable, and
may be beaten into any form, or be joined to another
heated piece by hammering. The joining two pieces
of iron together in this way is called welding. Iron
has a strong affinity for oxygen, and will attract it


from water and damp air. There is another kind of
iron found as a mineral called graphite, known by the
names of plumbago or black lead, w'hich is used in
making pencils and brightening stoves or other iron
materials. Graphite is a natural mixture of carbon
and iron, it is of a grey colour, bright lustre, and in
the form of powder : it is very soft and oily to the
touch, and by overlaying iron with it, the article is
preserved from oxidations commonly called rust. —
Every kind of iron is convertible into steel ; the
difference in quality depending on the ores. Steel is
formed by a process called cementation, which is done
by heating iron with powdered charcoal, in closed
vessels for several days at a red heat, by which means
the iron combines with the charcoal or carbon, and its
texture becomes changed. The properties of steel are
distinct from iron, and it is considered more valuable.
The process of tempering or hardening steel is by
putting it in a bath of hot mercury. It receives by
polishing a brilliant lustre and does not easily part
with it even in a moist atmosphere. B.
ON THE MANAGEMENT OF THE VINE.
No. 111.
To obtain a healthy stock should be considered very
important, otherwise much care may he expended to
little purpose. With regard to the choice of cuttings,
be very particular in selecting such shoots of last
year’s grow’tli as are strong and well ripened ; when
the selection is made, cut it from the parent stock
just below the place where they have been produced,
thus an old piece of wood will be attached to the
cutting, w r hich will be of material benefit to it; a
very convenient length for a cutting thus obtained,
is about one foot and a half long.
This may bear an appearance of waste, only having
one cutting from each year’s growth, but sometimes
a little loss is a great gain; for though a little is lost
in the pruning, greater satisfaction is obtained, be-
cause the stock is thus rendered more healthy, and of
course the fruit must be superior. I have concluded
that this simple little is not generally known, from
observing frequently three or four cuttings made from
one shoot. Certainly, w f here there is little anxiety
as to the result, it is not very important whether one
or more cuttings be made.
Should any accidental circumstance intervene to
prevent the cuttings from being immediately planted,
place them at once with their ends in some dry loam,
placing straw, or rather litter, over the parts exposed,
to prevent a too rapid drying of such parts. When
you are ready to transfer them to some permanent
position, carefully wash the dirt off, and examine
whether they appear dry or withered, if so, soak them
in soft water made luke-warm —rain water is the
best —this operation excites and distends the fibres,
and inclines them to strike root speedily.
If your ground be strong or moist, or rather wet,
trench where you intend to plant, and fill in some
lime rubbish to dry up the unhealthy moisture. Next
raise the borders about two feet, and prepare holes
for your cuttings, so that the uppermost eye will be
level with the surface ; this is an important item to
attend to, because a more healthy stock will be pro-
duced than by neglecting this apparently trivial
precaution. I shall endeavour to explain the reason.
When a long portion of cutting is left above the sur-
face, all the eyes of course must shoot, whereby the
plant is weakened, and expends its strength in useless
efforts to nourish the mass ; whereas, by inserting the
whole length, with the exception of one, the whole of
the sap is engaged in nourishing only it, till the
stock increases in strength, and the plant is rendered
healthy, because the whole of its vital principle is
being expended judiciously instead of uselessly.
The next important step will be to heap the mould
about the exposed part of the cutting, so as to cover it
slightly, to prevent any unnecessary exposure before
it strikes root ; without this precaution, there is a
likelihood of the lower part becoming decayed, in-
stead of attaching itself to the soil. Meanwhile
carefully keep away all weeds, at least till the cuttings
shoot, and as the main shoot advances, pick every
smaller one as it appears.
During the summer season, appoint a day in every
three weeks to look through the plants, clearing, and
removing all new wood, and checking the growffh of
the main shoots.
Once in every successive Spring, the soil should be
loosened round the vines, which will be of material
service to the plants.
These few rules will, if closely adhered to, insure
success to any individual who may be desirous of
raising a vineyard.
T. L. D.
CORRESPONDENCE.
To the Editor of the Colonial Literary Jour ; al.
Sir—On one of those days lately that I was kept hanging
about the Supreme Court under a subpoena, for which I got
the entire sum of one shilling out of £63 of costs incurred, I
found on a bench (which had a few minutes before been
occupied by the little fellow from whom I took the shilling
with one hand to return it with the other, and who knows my
sentiments to be in favour of a different coin,) the following
profound remarks. 1 trust my young friend will keep his own
counsel, and I shall take care I shall not let the circumstance
be traced to him, lest he should be visited by the condign ire
of the profession, and be prevented from earning more shillings.
MAXIM i.
If you have really a good case, you only endanger it by
going to law. Let it remain a good case—retain the satisfac-
tion of knowing in yo r own mind that it is such. Endeavour
to settle it privately, if it must be settled ; make a merit of
knocking off a good large part of your just rights, rather than
subject them to the uncertain issue of litigation.
MAXIM 11.
If you have a bad case—bring it by all means into Court—•
you have all the chances arising from points of law, points of
form, mismanagement of your antagonist’s attorney and counsel,
wrong-headedness of assessors and jury, in your favour, —and
at the worst you can only be made to pay with costs. It it
does go against you, it is a great satisfaction to have the war-
rant of a competent aulhority for parting with your money.
MAXIM 111.
A clever lawyer ought never to regard what may be the
truth in fact, but what may appear to be the truth in law. In
general he ought to suppress half his client’s case, otherwise
he shall not be able to make a pointy which is a lawyer s
chief end and glory, for on points fees depend. Yet a client,
conscious of the rectitude of his conduct, and sensitive of his
reputation, is not likely to be satisfied by this, for he will gene-
rally prefer to be floored with the preservation of his character
for fair dealing, to being floored with a suspicious case. My
limited experience leads me to think that the truth in tact, and
fully shewn, has as good a chance of success as the truth
partially shewn, for cross-examination frequently discloses a
little less than is necessary to explain the real state of the case.
MAXIM IV.
The making of costs is an important part of our art. They
may be made by diligence, by delay, by blundering. The best
way is by a union of the first and last. Promptness and acti-
vity is always agreeable to a client, while a gentle infusion of
mistake, for example, in drawing or serving notices, or affida


vits, is always easily managed and very productive of costs.
Delay, or rather the adoption of dilatory steps, is not so
satisfactory, inasmuch as the client may be wearied out, and
the lawyer acquire the character of being lazy. A great part
of the art is to know what the purse and the patience of vour
client will bear.
MAXIM V.
In cross-examination, the two best instruments of torture
are vagueness and extreme precision. The first is generally
the better of the two ; for if a question be vaguely put, it will
generally be vaguely answered, by which the witness will be
made to look very foolish, though the fault belong originally
to the interrogator. Extreme precision is not so sure a mode:
lor example, I remember a witness who was asked respecting
an official copy of a memorial, if it was a literal copy, and
replied, No, to the momentary discomfiture of bis side, but
insisting on explanation, stated further that all the literal
differences were marked on the copy in pencil, and consisted of
such differences as Brown for Browne, Marshal for Marshall.
If it should happen, as in this case, that the witness is able
to be equally precise in bis answers, and moreover is, or affects to
be, scrupulous and tender-conscienced, he may put Counsel out.
MAXIM XIII.
An Equity Suit may be compared to ham, and eggs, and
porler —it is a good stand-by to eke out indifferent “fare at
Common Law. When, in consequence of an attorney’s suit at
law being ail expended, he is really in want, nothing relieves
him so readily as filing a Bill. The ingredients of a Bill are
just every possible supposition to begin with. For example,
in a Bill of Discovery, we, by virtue of a “whereas,” First, suppose
that every possible sort of paper exists, and then we enumerate
every possible paper by every name that was ever used to
describe any possible paper. Secondly, We affirm that we have
not seen any one of these possible papers, and then we describe
them all over again in the same imaginary detail
as before. Thirdly, We aver that we desire to see every one
of these papers, and that it is necessary for the ends of equity
that we should see, and then we enumerate them all over again
with the same particularity as before. Fourthly, We beseech
the Court to order that the said papers be delivered up for
our inspection, and then we proceed again with our minute
nomenclature. If this be properly done, the Bill should weigh
eight or ten pounds avoirdupois, and be worth thirty or fifty
pounds sterling, at the very outset. Every judicious lawyer
will provide a good reserve of equity for filling up his spare
time. “ Tuque, O, dubiis ve defice rebus,”— Keep a good stock
of doubtful matters always on hand.
A. C.
Original Poetry.
SONNETS.
[By “ The Australian Shepherd.”]
View from the Namhige chain, over Limestone Plains,
Queanbeyan District.
I gazed from Nambige’s gigantic chain,
Whose rocky battlements lower darkly down.
Above slept cloudless skies without a frown,
Like mirrored waters of the deep hushed main.
Below, dark forest trees, earth’s giant train,
Reposing lay in solemn grandeur wild ;
And sylvan mounts whose sunny vistas smiled,
In mellow’d beauty, o’er the outstretched plain—
Here sleepless winds sighed o’er each beetling fane,
In Nature’s stern, yet not unpleasing mood,
’Mid leafy bowers and whispering solitude;
While o’er Pialligi—(man’s noblest fame)
Shone villas glistening like the sea birds sail—
And flocks depasturing o’er hill and dale.
LOVE.
Vainly I strive to break the galling chain,
That round my heart binds coldly withering ;
Oh love, how is’t thou fixst so deep thy sting,’
Since death s cold hand alone can free thy pain.
llow sad the retrospect of ruined years,
Of slighted love, nourished by smiling hope—
Go idle dreams—no more shalt thou find scope
In this sad heart. Father, to thee with tears,
A broken-hearted suppliant appeals
For strength—looking with faith to thee alone,
do quell the inward passion that has grown
d'he fountain of the misery he feels.
Oh let my heart, in penitence and prayer,
Gain peace from heaven free from all earthly care.
STAND OFF THE GRASS!
“ Get off the grass ! get off the grass !”
Says Corp’ral Desperady—
“ You must not let a creature pass,
“ Afore the hay is ready !
“ Nor stu ff gown, nor Colonial grey,
“ Nor gentleman nor lady,
“ Nor nanny goat—nor billy goat.”
Says Corp’ral Desperady !
“ Hilloalr! old chap in coat of black,
“ So hasty and so steady !
“ You can’t go there ! come back ! come back !”
Says Corp’ral Desperady.
(It was the parson, kirkward bound,
Lost in a deep brown study)—
“ The fellow’s deaf, I’ll bet a pound”—
Says Corp’ral Desperady.
One morning lately, close and hot,
(The square you know’s unshady,)
A Surgeon hurrying through was hail’d
By Corp’ral Desperady.
“ Stop—stop”—“ I can’t”—says Matheson
With puff and pace more speedy—
“ An urgent case, an accouchment”—
“ Oh ho !” says Desperady.
Upon a boist’rous afternoon
There came the widow Brady—
Young, bright, and lovely, fit to be
A soldier’s honour’d lady.
Across the pasture passing smart,
Genteel and light and steady,
Her angel ancle stole the heart
Of Corp’ral Desperady!
“ There’s sand and glare in George’s street,
“ Enough for any body—
“ What brings the silly people here ?”
Says Corp’ral Desperady.
“ There’s verdure in your own domain
“ So fragrant, fresh and shady !
“ You cannot come upon the grass
“ Afore the hay is ready!”
Alas ! for every little boy
Not yet for grammar ready !
And every pretty nurs’ry maid
That carries out a baby !
And every ruin’d gentleman
So idle, sad and seedy!
“ The Band shall play but once a week !”
Says Corp’ral Desperady!
A. C.
HINTS TO MAKE HOME HAPPY.
lo Husbands.— Keep up the practice of reading the paper
during the whole of breakfast time ; of allowing yourself
to be spoken to half-a-dozen times before you answer, and
then of asking your wife what it was that she said. Upon her
telling you, make some reply which is nothing to the purpose,
as if you were thinking of something else.
Having been out over night at an evening party, which your
wife was prevented from going to by indisposition, entertain
her next morning by a minute description of the young lady
you danced with, descanting on every point as enthusiastically
as possible.
Take frequent opportunities of praising features and per-
sonal peculiarities which are as different as possible from your
wife s. For instance, if she has blue eyes, say how you like
black ; if dark hair, how much you admire light; if she is tall,
remark that you prefer a moderate height; and if short, be
constantly quoting Byron, to the effect that you “hate a dumpy
woman.”
Some wives are very particular about their fenders. Should
this be the case with yours, always use it for your footstool.
When fresh drugget has be&n laid down on the stairs, particu-
larly if it is a rainy day, invariably forget to scrape your
shoes.
Discover, frequently, on a cold raw morning, that the room
is close, and insist on having the window open. On the other


hand, be as often, during the height of the dog-days, affected
with a chilliness, which shall oblige you to keep them shut.
Very often order dinner punctually at five, and very seldom
come home till a quarter to six. Occasionally, however, return
at the appointed hour, and, not finding things ready, complain
that you are never attended to.
If your fish, your joint, or your vegetables, should happen
accidentally to be a little under or over done, never smother
your disappointment like some people, but express it as mark-
edly as you can, and remain in an ill-humour for the rest of
the evening. Be never quite satisfied with what is set before
you; but, if possible, find some fault with every dish : or if not,
quarrel with the arrangements of the table. If you can find
nothing else to grumble at, think of something that you would
have liked better than what has been got for you, and say so.
Wives occasionally makes pies and puddings, with a view to
a little approbation. Never bestow this on any account ; but
always say you wish these things were left to the cook.
Knowing that there is nothing but cold meat in the house,
bring home, every now and then, half a dozen men, unex-
pectedly, to take pot-luck with you. Your wife will probably
sit at table flurried and uncomfortable; in which case amuse
them by joking at her expense.
Should you chance, after dinner, to be affected by a slight
drowsiness, never resist it because your wife wishes to chat
with you : do not mind her, but go quietly to sleep.
When you have an evening party at your house, come home
to dress just as the company is beginning to arrive.
Should you find yourself at eleven o’clock at night among a
set of bachelor friends, and be offered a cigar, always stay and
smoke it, and another after it if you like, and, if you please,
another after that; in fact, as many as you find agreeable ;
never troubling yourself for an instant about keeping your wife
and the servants up.
In short, on all occasions consult studiously your own incli-
nations, and indulge without the least restriction, your every
whim and caprice ; but never regard your wife’s feelings at all,
still less make the slightest allowance for any weakness or
peculiarity of her character, and your home will assuredly be
as happy as you deserve that it should be. — Punch.
LOCAL NEWS.
Appointment. —His Excellency the Governor is pleased to
make the following temporary appointment, viz. : —His Honor
Mr. Justice Stephen, to act as Chief Justice of the Supreme
Court of New South Wales, in the place and stead of the
Honorable Sir James Dowling, Knt., deceased, until a succes-
sor shall be appointed by Her Majesty, or during Her Majesty’s
pleasure. Tuesday's Government Gazette.
Copper Ore. —Mr. Grayling, in a scientific tour which he
is now making at Lake Macquarie, has discovered copper ore
equal to that of New Zealand, on the estate in which the
Ebenezer coal mine is now being worked, the coal seam of
which measures eight feet thick. In the event of further in-
vestigation proving that the copper ore is abundant, the
proximity to water carriage is such as will render it available
for the market at the least possible expense, and cannot hut be
beneficial to the colony at large, as increasing our exports to
the mother-country.
Bank of New South Wales. —A special meeting of the
proprietors of the Bank of New South Wales was held on
Saturday, when a report was presented, recommending that
£75,000 (or 33 per cent) should be struck off the capital as
lost by bad debts. It was resolved that a meeting should be
called to adopt this report, and also to return to the share-
holders seventeen per cent, thus reducing the capital one-half.
Look to your House ! —About half-past seven o’clock on
Monday morning, the house lately occupied by Mr. Ward,
publican, of Bridge-street, came down with a tremendous
crash.
The Port Phillip Election. —By the Shamrock, intelli-
gence has been received of the return of Mr. Boyd to the
Legislative Council in the place of Sir T. L. Mitchell.
The Bank of Australia. —A Petition is in course of signa-
ture, in favour of a measure, introduced into the Legislative
Assembly by Mr. Wentworth, for the purpose of enabling the
Bank of Australia to dispose of securities in certain shares by
lot. We confess that we have an in incible antipathy to
schemes of this kind, generally; yet, when we reflect on the
position in which the victimised shareholders of this establish-
ment are placed; that their liabilities after losing their invested
capital, amount to the enormous sum of £240,000; and that
the uncertainty which exists as to the winding up of the affair
retards the returning prosperity of the colony, we should be
inclined for once to relax a general principle in favour of an
object so desirable as the closing of this business without ac-
complishing the utter ruin of all concerned. Whether the
present measure is calculated to effect that object, will probably
depend as much on the public sympathy as upon its own
merits. We can only say we wish it that success which we
dare hardly hope for.— Weekly Register.
Fire at the Theatre. —Bunce, the man who was under
examination for an attempt to burn down the Victoria Theatre,
was committed for trial on Monday last.
Export of Horses. —We are glad to learn that the horses
shipped a short time ago for Calcutta, by Mr. Smith, Mr.
Roberts, and others, havebroughtremunerating prices ; averag-
ing about £5l a head.
Grain.— Statement of the various descriptions of Grain
held by the Government, on the Ist October, 1844: —wheat,
39,014 bushels; maize, 0,640 bushels.
State of Darlingfiurst Gaol. October 2nd, 1844 :
Trial 51 males, 2 females; transportation, 14 males; bail, 8
males, 5 females; confinees, 53 males, 37 females ; interior, 1
male; examination, 1 male, 8 females.—Total, 210.
Female Factory. —State of the Female Factory, Parra-
matta, on the Ist October, 1844:—Under Colonial Sentence,
64 ; not under Colonial Sentence, 391 ; in solitary confine-
ment, 6 ; in hospital, 26. Total number of women, 416.
Total number of children, 114.
ENGLISH EXTRACTS.
ADDRESS OF THE LIBERATOR.
After the sentence of the court had been passed
ON THE TRAVERSERS, THE FOLLOWING MANIFESTO WAS
PREPARED AND CIRCULATED BY O’CONNELL.
PEACE AND QUIET.
People of Ireland — Fellow-Countrymen t— Beloved Fellow-
Countrymen —The sentence is passed. But there is an appeal
from that sentence.
The appeal lies to the House of Lords.
1 solemnly pledge myself to bring an appeal against that
sentence, and I assure you there is every prospect that it will
be reversed.
Peace, then, and quie". Let there be not one particle of
riot, tumult, or violence.
This is the crisis in which it will be shown whether the
people of Ireland will obey me or not.
Any person who violates the law, or is guilty of any violence,
insult, or injury to person or property, violates my command,
and shows himself an enemy to me and a bitter enemy to
Ireland.
The people of Ireland —the sober, steady, honest, religious
people of Ireland—have hitherto obeyed my commands, and
kept quiet.
Let every man stay at home. Let the women and children
stay at home. Do not crowd the streets, and, in particular,
let no man approach the Four Courts.
Now, people of Dublin, and people of Ireland generally, I
shall know, and the world will know, whether you love and
respect me or not. Show your love and respect for me, by
your obedience to the law—your peaceable conduct—and the
total avoidance of any riot or violence.
PEACE, ORDER, QUIET, TRANQUILITY.
Preserve the peace, and the Repeal cause will necessarily
be triumphant.
Peace and quiet I ask for in my name, and as you regard me.
Peace and quiet I ask for in the name of Ireland, and as
you love your native land.
Peace—quiet—order, I call for under the solemn sanction
of religion; I conjure you to observe quiet, and I ask it in the
adorable name of the ever living God.
Gratify me and your friends by your being quiet and peace-
able.


The enemies of Ireland would be delighted at your violating
the peace, or being guilty of any disorder.
Disappoint them—gratify and delight by peace, order, and
quiet.
Your ever faithful friend,
DANIEL O’CONNELL.
Corn-Exchange Rooms,
30th May, 1844.
Mr. O’Connell. —A curious work, entitled The Three
Kingdoms, has just been published in Paris, written by the
Viscount d’Arlincourt. He gives the following account of a
conversation with Mr. O’Connell on the evening of the Tara
Monster Meeting; his language, it will be seen, is more war-
like than he now allows his purpose to have been ; yet it is a
friendly version of the communication :
“I was desirous to speak to O’Connell of the dangers of
rebellion, and of the chances which a man risked in throwing
open the career of a revolt.
* I detest sedition as strongly as you do,’ replied he : ‘ but
oppression, too, I find detestable. Ido not strive to demolish,
but to enfranchise. I shall succeed by the force of circum-
stances, by the irresistible progress of human thought, by the
spirit of civilization, which creates a new life in the human
race, and by the assistance of a God of Justice, I shall have
no need of war.’
“ ‘ But you may be attacked—you may be prosecuted ?’
“ * Prosecutions ! let them come. They will but augment
my power.’
“ ‘ But if the sword be drawn and the scabbard flung away
—if iron-handed violence assails your person V
“ ‘ Oh! in that case, let me but say one word, and next
day the army of five hundred thousand men would stand
ranged beneath my banner —aye, a million if need were.’
“ ‘ But how would you arm your troops ?’
“ ‘ Nothing more easy in the world. They would take their
muskets and cannon from the enemy, themselves would march
over to them with arms and baggage. Even still I’d be victor
without a conflict.’
“ O’Connell spoke with ardour and with the fire of convic-
tion. This old man, who is said to be about seventy-five
years of age, preserves in his looks and thoughts all the energy
of middle age.
“ ‘ You are a poet,’ said he. * Here are some lines which
I have written yesterday before the Meeting of Tara.’
“Oh, Erin, shall it e’er be mine
To wreak thy wrongs in battle line —
To raise my victor-head and see
Thy hills, thy dales, thy people free?
This glimpse of bliss is all I crave
Between my labours and my grave.”
“ ‘ I should greatly like to have these lines” said I to the
orator poet.
‘“I shall give them to you in my own hand-writing,’
replied he with a smile.
“ And he immediately copied them for me, with the follow-
ing words above them :
“ ‘ Written for the Viscount d’Arlincourt.’
“ That is a curious autograph. I have received it in Tara
‘ball, at the foot of the Sacred Hill, near the stone of Destiny,
and from the hands of the Liberator himself.”— Watchman.
UNITED IRISHMEN’S DOUBLE-FACED SONG.*
1 The pomp of courts, and pride of kings
3 I prize above all earthly things
5 I love my country, but my king
7 Above all men his praise I’ll sing
9 The royal banners are displayed
11 And may success the standard aid
2 I fain would banish far from hence
4 The Rights of Man and Common Sense
6 Destruction to that odious name
8 The plague of Princes, Thomas Paine
10 Defeat and ruin seize the cause
12 Of France, her liberty, and laws.
* This song, to obtain the true meaning, must be read as
the lines are numbered.
Governor’s Salary. —The Queen has approved of the
sum of per annum, as the salary of bis Excellency the
Lieutenant-Governor of Van Diemen’s Land.
Among the expected royal visitors to the English Court,
was the King of Saxony.
Sir Thomas Francis Freemantle, Bart., is the new Secre-
tary at War, in the room of Sir Henry Hardinge, appointed
Governor-General of India.
The General Assemblies of the Free and Residuary
Churches of Scotland were sitting in Edinburgh. The Rev.
Henry Grey, of Edinburgh, was the Moderator of the former,
and the Rev. Principal Lee of the latter.
A rumour was current in Ireland that Daniel O’Connell,
when sentenced to imprisonment, was on the eve of marriage
to a Belfast lady, sister to a F. I. C. D., and, credut Judteus, a
staunch follower of the doctrines of the Church of England.
Precious Abuse. —On 19th September, Ifiofi, the French
and English encountered in the vineyards of Maupertius, not
far from Poictiers. The event of that day is well known.
Great carnage was made of the Scots. Lord Douglas, after
having been wounded, was forced off the field bv his surviving
companions. Archibald Douglas, a warrior eminent in our
history, fell into the power of the enemy ; but by the extraor-
dinary presence of mind of Sir William Ramsay of Colluthy,
he was concealed, and escaped unknown. The story, as related
by Fordun, is curious. It shall be translated, as nearly as
possible, in his own manner: Archibald Douglas having been
made prisoner along with the rest, appeared in more sumptuous
armour than the other Scottish prisoners, and therefore he was
supposed by the English to be some great lord. Late in the
evening after the battle, when the English were about to strip
off their armour, Sir William Ramsay of Colluthy happening
to be present, fixed his eyes on Archibald Douglas, and, affect-
ing to be in a violent passion, cried out, “ You cursed, damn-
able murderer, how comes it in the name of mischief that you
are thus proudly decked out in your master’s armour ? Come
hither and pull off my boots.” Douglas approached trem-
blingly, kneeled down, and pulled off one of the boots : Ram-
say taking up the boot, beat Douglas with it. The English
bystanders, imagining him out of his senses, interposed, and
rescued Douglas, They said that the person whom he had
beaten was certainly of great rank, and a lord. “ What! he a
lord,” cried Ramsay, “ He is a scullion, and a base knave, and,
as I suppose, has killed his master. Go, you villain to the
field, search for the body of my cousin, your master, and when
you have found it, come back, that, at least, I may give him
a decent burial.” Then he ransomed the feigned serving man
for forty shillings, and having buffeted him smartly, he cried,
“ Get you gone ; fly.” Douglas bore all this patiently, carried
on the deceit, and was soon beyond the reach of his enemies.
This story, as to some of its circumstances, may not seem
altogether probable ; yet in the main it has the appearance of
truth.— Annals of Scotland.
Authors. —Necessarily dependent on imagination, feeling,
and opinion, of how exhausting a nature is both the work and
the appeal ofliterature! Let the successful writer look back
a few years, and what an utter sense of desolation there will
be in the retrospect. Not a volume but has been the burial-
place of many hopes, and the graven record of feelings never
to be known again. How constantly has mortification ac-
companied triumph ! With what secret sorrow has that praise
been received from strangers denied to us by friends. Nothing
astonishes us more than the envy which attends literary fame,
and the unkindly depreciation which waits upon the writer.
Of every species of fame it is the most ideal and apart; it
would seem to interfere with no one. It is bought by a life of
labour; generally, also, of seclusion and privation. It asks
its honour only from all that is most touching and most
elevated in humanity. What is the reward that it craves ?
To lighten many a solitary hour, and to spiritualize a world
that were else too material. What is the requital that the
Athenians of the earth give to those who have struggled
through the stormy water, and the dark night, for their ap-
plause ? Both reproach and scorn. If the author have —and
why should he be exempt from ?—the faults of his kind, with
what greedy readiness are they seized upon and exaggerated.
How ready is the sneer against his weakness or his error.
What hours of feverish misery have been passed ! —what bitter
tears have been shed—over the unjust censure and the per-
sonal sarcasm.
Newspaper Readers. —“ Shenstone, the poet, divides the
readers of a newspaper into seven classes. He says—l. The
ill-natured look at the list of bankrupts; 2. The poor to the
price of bread ; 3. The stock-jobber to the lies of the day; 4.
The old-maid to marriages; 5. The prodigal to the deaths;
6. The monopolizers to the hopes of a wet and bad harvest;
7. The boarding-school and all other young misses to all mat-
ters relative to Gretna Green.”—


India-Rubber.—This substance, which, within the memory
of thousands now living, was duly sold in stationer’s shops for
the purpose of rubbing out pencil marks, is daily brought into
some new and important use. Owing to its light and imper-
vious qualities, it has for some years been made applicable to
most articles of external dress; while in America a boat has
been constructed of it, which weighs only twenty pounds, will
carry a ton weight, and may be folded up into a portable
bundle !
Spring Bonnets.—lf there is any time of the year when
the dear sneaking things of wives appear more fond than
another, it is just towards the end of March. Old codgers,
who have been long journeying in the vale of matrimony, melt
not at these soft conjugalities, but button up their pockets
with a determined look. Young husbands, however, are in-
variably caught in the snare. When they have been “coaxed
up ” into the requisite pitch of affectionate generosity, the
general course young wives pursue, is to invite them to go a
shopping with them. Suddenly, they come upon a milliner’s
window ; then ’tis—“ Oh, there’s a love of a shape !” and “ 1
so want a Spring bonnet.” What spouse, with a spark of the
poetical in his composition, could refuse a “ Spring bonnet ?”
Why it seems as natural to the season as a lily bed. One’s
fancy wanders off to daisied meads, May blossoms, and to trying
“who loves butter,” in the crowfoot freckled fields; and
Herrick, with his quaint, fresh gems of poesy, springs up, into
one’s memory like little beads of dew. Who could refuse, in
such a happy train of thought, the odd thirty shillings, or
thereabouts, for the “ Spring Bonnet ?” The transfer of cash
takes place with a world of good grace! Young husbands!
beware, about March, [or October,] of coaxing wives, who all
suffer under a determination towards “ Spring Bonnets !”
The Blessings of War ! —At the Revolution, in 1688, the
National Debt was little more than half a million sterling;
and the interest not forty thousand pounds. Then began our
madness and misery. The war of William that followed the
Revolution, cost thirty-one millions ! The war of the Spanish
succession cost forty-four millions! The Spanish war and
American succession cost forty-seven millions ! The seven
years’ war about Nova Scotia cost one hundred and seven mil-
lions ! The war with our American colonies cost one hundred
and fifty-one millions! The war of the French Revolution
cost four hundred and seventy -two millions ! The war against
Buonaparte cost five hundred and eighty-six millions! To
these must be added the still more terrible fact, that such wars
cost England in one way or another from four to five millions
of men ! — Martyr of Eromanges.
A PLEASING STORY.
Scotland furnishes more instances than any other
country of her people, by care and attention, rising
from comparative nothingness to stations of the
highest rank and consideration. The following inter-
esting narrative details one of those instances of suc-
cessful merit, and is calculated to promote good
conduct in all:
When Mr. Grigor Grant first entered the Excise, he
was stationed in Grantown of Strathspey. He, being
then unmarried, took private lodgings for himself, and
engaged a young boy, named John Grant, in order to
attend him in the capacity of a servant. Mr. Grant
got very fond of young John and used him more like
a child of his own than a servant. Mr. Grant being
derived from a respectable family, got a liberal educa-
tion ; and being of an affable and kind disposition, he
began to teach his favourite the first branches of
education. The boy having quick capacity to learn,
soon became a tolerably good scholar. He one day
informed his benefactor that he never expected to get
such a kind and indulgent master; but having ar-
rived near the years of maturity (being at the time
seventeen years of age), said that he was anxious
to go to Edinburgh, and that if he got a situation
there, good and well, but if not, that he intended
to enter his Majesty’s service. At parting, Mr.
Grant acted towards the lad in a liberal manner.
Upon his arrival in Edinburgh, he implemented what
he intended, as he enlisted in an English regiment.
A short time thereafter the German war commenced,
when the said regiment was ordered to the seat of
war. John Grant being an active young soldier, and
well disciplined, was the first of his regiment, while
the British were engaged in the taking of a garrison,
to mount one of the scaling laddersr In consequence
of his being so valiant and active, his colonel appointed
him serjeant; and, having conducted himself so well
in the discharge of his duty, his good conduct after-
wards procured for him promotion to the rank of
ensign. Mr. Grant, about sixteen years thereafter,
had occasion to go to Aberdeen, where there happened
to be an English regiment stationed at the time ; and
as the duties of his situation at Strathspey, &c., had
not led him to see a military band, he was anxious to
see a regiment at drill, and he therefore attended for
that purpose, along with a good many other spectators.
When the regiment formed line, the colonel took his
post, and looking at the great number of spectators,
he stepped forward with his sword in his hand, and
tapping Mr. Grant on the shoulder, and beckoning him
aside from the crowd, asked if he was not Mr. Grant,
officer of excise ? He replied that he was the very
person. The colonel then asked "him if he knew who
he was ? Mr. Grant said that he did not. The colonel
then said he was happy to inform him that he was
John Grant, his old servant, but now colonel of the
regiment before them ; and that if he had not been
kind to him when in his service, he would not have
made so free with him. After mutual interchanges
of affection and esteem, the colonel invited Mr. Grant
to dine at mess in the evening with him and the other
officers of the regiment. “ Roast beef” shortly after-
wards having beat, a good many of the officers entered
the mess-room and took their seats ; but Mr. Grant
w r aited the arrival of the colonel, who took hold of
him by the arm and led him into the mess-room, the
whole of the officers standing at the time, when the
colonel took the chair, placing his old preceptor on his
right hand. Mr. Grant used to state that it was one
of the happiest days he ever enjoyed. But all rank
and honour are uncertain. Colonel Grant and his
regiment were ordered soon after to foreign service,
when, alas ! in a short time thereafter, he was killed
fighting for his king and country, to the great sorrow
of his early benefactor, and the loss of his highly ho-
noured country. —Elgin Courant.
COMMERCIAL REVIEW.
Commercial transactions of the past week have been limited,
and do not call for any particular comment.
Tea. —This market again exhibits a degree of firmness: the
recent sale of damaged Teas by auction, which realized on an
average £3 10s. per chest, is a fair criterion of the opinion
entertained respecting the temporary depression in this market.
Sugar—ln this article an advance of full 10s: per ton has
taken place.
Holders of imported goods generally, manifest no particular
desire to accept present rates, confidently expecting to realize
remunerating prices, from the moderate amount of recent
consignments.
The prices of Colonial produce remain the same as former
quotations.
B. S. LLOYD
Commission Agent, Bridge-street.
October 9th, 1844'.


Sljtpptng Intelligence.
ARRIVALS.
October 3.—The barque Proteus, 254 tons, Captain Gale,
from the Sperm Fishery, with 680 barrels sperm oil.
October 3. —The steamer Maitland, 103 tons, Captain Par-
sons, from Port Macquarie, the Ist instant, with sundries.
October 3. —The brig Dorset, 82 tons, Captain Walsh, from
Port Adelaide the 26th September, with wheat, &c.
October 3.—The brig William, 149 tons, Captain Thom,
from Launceston the 29th ultimo, with 10 tons potatoes, 4000
bushels of wheat, &c.
October s.—The steamer William the Fourth, 52 tons, Cap-
tain Wiseman, from the Clarence River the 2nd instant, with
sundries.
October 7-—The schooner Ariel, 104 tons, Captain Preston,
from Port Nicholson the 17th September, with 40 tuns black
oil, &e.
October B.—The brig Julia, 131 tons, Captain Robinson,
from Newcastle, with coals.
October B.—The steamer Sovereign, 119 tons, Captain
Cape, from Moreton Bay, the 4th instant, with sundries.
DEPARTURES.
October 6.—The schooner Terror, Captain Dunning, for
Auckland, with sundries.
October 6.—The brig Tobago, Captain Thomas, for Circular
Head via Port Phillip, in ballast.
October 6.—The schooner Eagle, Captain Hodges, for Cir -
cular Head, in ballast.
October 6.—The schooner Waterlily, Captain Hayle, for
Hobart Town, with sundries.
October 6.—The ship Surprise, Captain Miller, for the
Whaling Grounds, with gear, &c.
October 6.—The schooner William, Captain Freeman, for
Moreton Bay, with a general cargo.
October B.—The steamer Shamrock, Captain Gilmore, for
Launceston, via Boyd Town and Port Phillip, with sundries.
CITV ELECTION.
CANDIDATES for the approaching Election are respect-
fully informed that every description of PRINTING
pertaining to Election business, Posting-bills, Hand-bills,
Cards, Envelopes, Voting Papers, &c., may be obtained to
order, at a few hours notice, and at low prices, at J. Reading’s
GENERAL PRINTING OFFICE,
133, King-street East.
A CH ALIEIffSE,
TO ENGLAND, IRELAND, SCOTLAND, AND ALL THE WORLD
BESIDE.
WALKER’S PATENT GROATS.
THIS ARTICLE, if tested, will be found to contain more
nutriment, than any similar article of the kind. E.
Walker is prepared to prove that two thirds of the quantity of
the above, if made in a proper manner, will be equal in nourish-
ment, and of a thicker substance, than the usual quantity
generally recommended by others in the directions for use.
Another desirable property belonging to Walker’s Patent
Groats is, as regards the great safety for export—not liable to
that change which the English manufacture is, by turning
sour on the voyage, avoided by the patent mode of preparation,
and greatly aided by the spontaneous growth of the grain
grown in this Country; while free from the artificial culture
which causes so much moisture in the farina of the English
grain, and scarcely ever eradicated or sufficiently prepared.
Enough already is before the public to satisfy them that
Walker’s Farinaceous Food, (for Children and for Persons with
impared digestion,) ought not to be despised, and which for
the future will be packed in Tin Canisters, in order to preserve
its most agreeable flavour. With the usual white label—
sealed and signed Edward Walker—that only being genuine.
Wholesale orders to any extent will be immediately at-
tended to; any export order exceeding ten gross of either
article, terms, half Cash, and the remainder when the goods
are resold.
Manufactory, Old Botany Road.
ENGLISH PA3PE2ES.
WANTED, one copy each of the Mark Lane Express, of
the 4th and 18th March last, for which one shilling
each will be given.
Apply to the General Printing Office, 133, King-street.
©olontal mtcvarjj journal,
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
THE TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION to this Journal
are, Three Shillings per Quarter, in Town ; Country,
liiree Shillings and Sixpence ; payable, in every case,
in advance.
Terms for Advertisements : —For one inch, and under,
Three Shillings; and One Shilling for every additional inch,
each insertion. Advertisements will be received until Two
o’Clock on Wednesday afternoon; but cannot be withdrawn
later than Nine o’Clock on Wednesday morning. Adver-
tisements must specify on the face of them the number of
times they are to be inserted, or they will be continued till
countermanded, and charged accordingly.
All communications must be addressed to “The Editor of
the Colonial Literary Journal, General Printing Office, 133,
King-street, East,” (post paid.)
TO 2.HT,
A HOUSE, situate in King-street East, containing four
good rooms on the ground floor, one large room and two
bed-rooms on the first floor; kitchen and large cellar under
ground floor; with good dry stores, yard, and other conve-
niences.
This house is situated in a central part of the street, and
calculated for carrying on an extensive business. Rent and
other particulars may be known on application at 133, King-
street ; or at Mr. Brown’s, grocer, King-street.
LET TO RESPECTABLE TENANTS WEEKLY.
IN LIVERPOOL-STREET.
FOUR HOUSES, NEXT MR. LEA’S
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL GROCERY ESTABLISHMENT,
M
CORNER OF GEORG E-STREET.
A os. 102, 104, 106, & 108 —-four houses.
R. SIUBBS will sell by public auction, at the Mart,
King-street, on
MONDAY NEXT, the 14th OCTOBER, 181-4,
At 12 o’clock precisely,
All the above very valuable freehold house property, now let to
Mr. Madden, at 10s. 1
Mr. Hodges, at ?s. , ,
Mr. Steward, at ss. / weekly
Mr. , at ss. J
It is the prudent capitalist whose real interest it is to pick
up such purchases as these. 1
Sure of a rental now, and no doubt of a better shortly in
what way can his money be more profitably employed than
upon houses of this sort, situated in such a thoroughfare for
business as these are in ?
1 he present rents are nothing to go by in estimating the
value of the property; it is, somehow or other,, marvellously
underlet. J
It may be had, however, in one lot, if a party wishes to take
advantage of re-building on a sixty-three feet frontao-e, It is
scarcely a stone’s throw from the Park, and right-on for the
wharfs at that end of the town.
FOUR VOTES IN PHILLIP WARD,
OR STAND HIMSELF ON HIS OWN QUALIFICATION.
Terms made known at sale.
Agents for this Journal.
Sydney, Mr. W. Jones, Circulating Library, Brickfield-hill
Parramatta Mr. Hugh Taylor.
Windsor Mr. Walker.
Bathurst Mr. Tress
West Maitland Mr.’ Galloway.
Camden, Campbelltown, Penrith, and
Liverpool Mr. C. Lester.
Gunning Mr. Hawthorne.
