

COLONIAL LITERARY JOURNAL
AND
Weekly Miscellany of Useful Information.
<! NON TUA TE MOVEANT, SED PUBLICA VOTA.”
Vol. 11. No. 33.]
SYDNEY, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1845.
[Price 4d.
DISAPPOINTMENTS IN LIFE.
Though it is not uncommon to meet with persons who
bitterly bewail their fate as “disappointed men,” &c.,
it rarely happens that serious disappointment in life is
an attendant upon the labours of those who are satis-
fied with steadily engaging in some single pursuit to
which their capacities are adapted, and to which alone the
whole powers of their minds are applied with resolute
determination. Any deviation, however, from such a
singleness of purpose, or any glaring inconsistency in
our expectations, is generally accompanied with failure
and disappointment. And as most of the unhappi-
ness in the world arises rather from disappointed de-
sires, than from positive evil, it is of the utmost con-
sequence to attain just notions of natural and social
economy, that we may not vex ourselves with fruitless
wishes, or give way to groundless and unreasonable
discontent. The laws of natural philosophy, indeed,
are tolerably understood and attended to ; and though
we may suffer inconveniences, we are seldom disap-
pointed in consequence of them. No one would ex-
pect to preserve the plantain in the open air through
a Russian winter; or, when he has planted an
acorn, to see it become a large oak in a single season.
The mind of man naturally yields to necessity ; and
our wishes soon subside when we see the impossibility
of their being gratified. In like manner, we find
the laws of the moral government of the world fully
as determined and invariable. The progress of vege-
tation is not more certain than the growth of habit,
nor more clearly ascertained than the force of affec-
tion or the influence of example.
The man, therefore, who has well studied the ope-
rations of nature in mind as well as matter, will ac-
quire a certain moderation and equity in his claims
upon Providence. He will never be disappointed
either in himself or others, He will act with preci-
sion, and expect that effect alone from his efforts
which they are naturally adapted to produce, For
want of this, men of merit often censure the disposi-
tions of Providence for suffering characters they des-
pise to run away with advantages, which, they yet
k"Ow, are obtained by such means as a noble spirit
would never submit to, If they then refuse to pay
the price, why should they expect the purchase ?
This world should be consideredin the light of a mart
of commerce, where fortune exposes to our view, at
marked prices, various goods and valuable commodi-
ties, such as riches, honours, fame, ease, knowledge,
integrity. The ready money, which we are to lay
out to the best advantage, is our time, our labour,
our ingenuity. After having examined, compared,
chosen, rejected, we should stand to our own judg-
ment, and after having purchased one thing, rest con-
tent, and not repine that we do not possess another.
The force of well-regulated industry is such, that a
steady and vigorous exertion of our faculties, directed
to one end, will generally insure success. There is no
one quality which gives so much dignity to character as
consistency of conduct; and the most characteristic mark
of a great mind is to choose some one importantobject,
and pursue it through life. When we ha*e fixed
upon one object, we should pursue it steadily, and be
always ready to sacrifice to it every interfering pas-
sion or inclination.
If we would be rich, for instance, and think the
end worth the sacrificing everything to, doubtless we
may be rich. Thousands have become so, from the
lowest beginnings, by patient toil and undeviating at-
tention to the minutest articles of expense and pro-
fit. But the pleasures of leisure, of an unfettered
mind, of a free unsuspicious temper, must be given
up. Our former high standard of morals must be
considerably lowered, and mixed with the baser alloy of
a calculating and worldly-minded prudence. The nice
susceptibilities and embarrassments of a delicate and
ingenuous spirit must be suppressed and trampled
upon, and even injustice itself occasionally be viewed
through the softening medium of a spirit of self-in-
terest. It must, generally speaking, also be our duly,
in this self-imposed slavery, to keep on in one beaten
track, to discard all ‘literary pursuits, to shut our
hearts against the muses, and to be content with plain,
household truths. Can we not submit to this drud-
gery ? Does our spirit rebel against it ? Let us rise
above it then ; only we must not repine that we are
not rich. Let us be satisfied that we have not de-
scended to mean practices,—that we have not paid
our health, our liberty, our conscience, for wealth,
and envy no one who possesses it. We need not feel
ashamed in the presence of such a one. We do not
possess riches, it is true ; but we have not sought
them. We have chosen a different lot. We are content.
If our endeavour be after knowledge, that too may
be purchased—by steady application, and long soli-
tary hours of study and reflection. Give these, and
we may become learned. But let us not complain if
we have little more than the common conveniences of
life. It was not to raise a fortune that we gave the
vigour of our days to study and retirement. If such
has been our hope, we have mistaken our path, and
ill employed our energies. The reward which the
man of letters obtains for all his labour, is, a soul free
from vulgar fears and prejudices, a comprehensive


and cultivated mind full of inexhaustible stores of
entertainment and reflection, a perpetual spring of
fresh ideas, and the conscious dignity of superior in-
telligence. I
If it be quiet and independence that we desire. Ifj
we have a delicacy and reserve of temper which ren-:
ders it impossible for us to elbow our way in the j
world, and he the herald of our own merits, let us be i
content with a modest retirement, with the esteem of
intimate friends, and the complaisance of an ingenuous
spirit; and be willing to resign the splendid distinc-
tions of the world to others who can better battle
for them.
The moderation we have been endeavouring to
inculcate will be a sure preventive to most of the dis-
appointments of life. It will likewise prevent much
mortification and disgust in our intercourse with man-
kind. As we ought not to wish in ourselves, so
neither should we expect in our friends, contrary qua-
lifications. However sanguine may be our tempera-
ment, we must soon discover that models of absolute
perfection are only to be met with in romance. We
soon become sensible that there are combinations of
moral qualities which never can take place but in idea.
We should remember also that there is a cast of
manners peculiar and becoming to each age, sex, and
profession, and therefore never suffer illiberal and
thoughtless censure to escape us. When we are hurt
by the brutality or sluggish conception of the vulgar,
we should consider that refinement and delicacy of
moralfeeling would be for them exceedingly unfit, and
even a real misfortune.
The man, therefore, who studies the philosophy of
the human mind, will know what to expect from every
one, and will be enabled readily to make allowance
for the workings of vanity, or the bias of self interest,
by which he will find all with whom he comes in
contact more or less to be actuated.
Our aim has been, very briefly, and as a mere out-
line, to show that the cause of most disappointments
may traced to our own unfair expectations from the
course we may enter upon in life, and to point out the
folly of those who pine for external wordly advantages,
while enjoying those purer and serener pleasures
which must always be sacrificed when the other class
of benefits are exclusively pursued. We may, how-
ever, remark that there is doubtless a modified course
in the ordinary pursuits of the world, which is not
inconsistent with much delightful recreation in the
flowery fields of literature, or the graver shades of
science and philosophy. A change of occupation,
whether from business to amusement, or from amuse-
ment to business, is in itself pleasant, as well as
salutary. And it is doubtless in some certain union
of the two classes of pursuits that the surest way of
attaining happiness is to be found.
Biography.
SIR DAVID WILKIE.
Wilkie was born on the 18th November 1785, in the small
rural parish of Cults, Fifeshire, of which his father was mi-
nister,* passing rich with about seventy pounds of annual
stipend. The education of the young painter commenced
when about seven years of age, at the school of his native
parish in the village of Pitlessie. In 1797, he was removed
to that of the adjoining parish of Kettle, kept by Dr. Strachan,
now bishop of Toronto. Subsequently he enjoyed ofcout a
twelvemonth’s tuition at the academy of Cupar, the chief town
of the district.
It appears to be the business of every writer of ” Lives” to
seek out some early indications of the after-genius of his sub-
ject, and in this case the biographer* ha 3 not sought in vain.
Dr, Strachan has been heard to testify that Wilkie could, at
the age of twelve, draw better than he could write; loved to
trace figures on the slates, benches, and walls; and “ when his
head was down, as all imagined, at his lesson, instead of mas-
tering his task, he was filling the margin of his book with
heads in all postures, and of all expressions; though the
whimsical prevailed.” Indeed Wilkie himself has declared,
that “ he could draw before he could read, and paint before
he could spell.” So decided an inclination for the arts
was not discouraged, and he was sent, when fourteen years
old, to the Trustees’ Academy of Edinburgh, to receive in-
struction in drawing, Here he studied hard, not always
from the models and casts provided by the institution, but
at fairs and markets, catching up those traits of character
and expression which he afterwards so successfully trans-
ferred to the canvass. In his eighteenth year he returned
to Cults, to become a provincial portrait-painter; but, far
from pursuing it in the usual mode, his turn for humour caused
him to make drawings from heads when their owners least
expected it: the countenances of sleepers in church, herd-
boys—in short, of whoever exhibited any grotesque peculiarity
of expression, were certain to be added to Wilkie’s collection.
This sort of practice gave him such confidence, that he painted
a picture called “Pitlessie Fair,” the principal figures in
which he copied from life ; some of his friends, neighbours,
and even of his own family, actually sitting to him for the
purpose. He also began the “ Village Recruit.” These
early efforts of the pencil produced him so much local fame,
that, by the advice and assistance of his friends, he ventured
to London, though only nineteen years of age. After waiting
for two months, he was admitted, in July 1805, a probationer
in the Royal Academy, and soon became one of its most
diligent pupils. His means were slender, and in spite of his
frugal habits, he entertained little hopes of keeping a footing
long in the great metropolis ; for though one of the hardest
students in the academy, he had no means of earning money.
But his prospects soon brightened : he fortunately obtained a
commission for a picture. It was painted, admitted to the
exhibition of the Royal Academy in 1806, and though it pro-
duced only thirty guineas in cash, may be said to have made
the painter’s fortune. The “ Village Politicians” (the picture
alluded to) at once established Wilkie’s fame, even before the
public were admitted to the rooms to "see it. “ At the dinner
with which the royal academicians open their exhibition—a
dinner given to the prime of the land for rank and talent—the
generous Mr. Angersteinf was so moved by the excellence of
Wilkie's picture, that, declaring it had all the spirit of Teniers
and the humour of Hogarth, he pointed it out to the company
as the star of the collection.” The Royal Academy, as a body,
also acknowledged the excellence of the “Village Politicians.”
Fuseli, the professor of painting, told Wilkie it was a “ dan-
gerous work,” adding—“ That picture will either prove the
most happy or the most unfortunate work of your life.” It
proved the ' most happy;” for the young Scotsman—unlike
the thousands who have been ruined by premature fame—
* The painter was the third son. Two of his brothers, John
and James, were officers in the British army; the other,
Thomas—-now, we believe, alive ~is a merchant. His only
sister Helen still survives.
• Allan Cunningham. Life of Sir David Wilkie; witn
his Journals, &c. 3 vols. London: John Murray.
f This gentleman, by bequeathinghis collection of pictures
to the nation, was the founder of the ■* National Gallery.'’


studied the more intensely, and worked the harder, This is
sufficiently proved by the patient attention to details which is
observable in Wilkie’s earlier pictures, and in which few pain-
ters ever exceeded him. He invariably drew from nature;
and when he could not obtain a model otherwise, sat to him-
self ! Haydon, the historical painter, relates that, in going to
breakfast with him one morning, he found his friend " sitting
partly naked, and drawing from his left knee, for a figure
which he had on his easel. He was not at all moved ; for
nought moved Wilkie; and when I expressed some surprise
at what he was about, he replied with a smile, * It's capital
practice, let me tell you.’ ” Another such anecdote is related
by Mr. Andrew Wilson, “ I remember the quiet glee with
which Wilkie told us, that one day Bannister the actor called,
and was shown in while he was sitting on a low seat, dressed
as a woman, with a looking-glass before him, performing the
part of model for himself. Wilkie was not the man to be in
the least discomposed at being found in such a plight. Ban-
nistergased on him for a moment or so, and then said, 1 1 need
not introduce myself.' < Truly no,’ said Wilkie ;‘ I know you
very well; but you see I can't move lest I spoil the folds of
my petticoat. lam for the present an old woman, very much
at your service.’ ”
The path to fame was now fairly smoothed for Wilkie; he
was so fortunate as to obtain the friendship and advice of Sir
George Beaumont, one of the most enlightened amateurs of
ins day. He began his “Alfred” as one of a series of pictures
*° illustrate English history, in course of collection by Mr.
Alexander Davidson ; but devoted some time to his “Sunday
Morning” and “ Rent Day.” Amidst all this industry, he
found time to pay a visit to the Cults « Manse” in the spring
of 1807. Though his stay was short, he returned to his easel
with renewed vigour, and, by his own account, increased am-
bition. In the following year, Wilkie commenced keeping a
Journal, and noted down the events of his life with the same
laborious minuteness as is observable in the detail of his
paintings. From these we learn, that in 1808 he was busy
upon “The Sick Lady,” “The Cut Finger,” and other pro-
ductions ; that he made a tour in Devonshire, and a painting
visit to Colerton, the seat of Sir G. Beaumont, where he took
some interesting sketches from nature. In the year 1809, he
was elected an associate of the Royal Academy, and began
his “ Village Festival,” which now, even beside the most ce-
lebrated works of ancient and modern masters, forms a main
attraction in the National Gallery. We find many entries in
tne Journals, which attest Wilkie’s close application to his
art, such as "'painted seven hours,” “painted an hour before
breakfast,” &c. On one occasion, he was asked by the wife of
one of his oldest friends to take an airing in her carriage, and
dme with her family afterwards ; he accepted the invitation to
dinner, but refused the drive. He owns he would have liked
it; “ but,” he asked, “ don’t you think it would be more to
my interest to add a few more touches to this picture while
there is anything like light?” Such habits of severe applica-
tion told even upon a young and a northern constitution, and
in 1810 Wilkie felt their bad effects ; he became ill, and was
obliged to refrain from painting. This, however, did not
prevent a new honour falling to him ; in 1811 he was elected
a Royal Academician. His father, the good minister of Cults,
lived to see him thus reach the pinnacle of his profession, and
uied in peace during the following year.
It must be mentioned to the honour of Wilkie, that some
years after, he commissioned his friend Chantrey to chisel two
beautiful medallions of his father and mother, which he caused
to be placed, upon a tablet with suitable inscriptions, in the
church of Cults.
V ilkie had now painted a sufficient number of pictures to
set up an exhibition of his own, which he did in Pall Mall;
but it turned out a profitless speculation. In 1813, he caused
his mother and sister to remove from their rural home to his,
which he had established in a good-sized house in Kensing-
ton, near the noble domain of Lord Holland. By this time,
the Marquis of Stafford and the Prince Regent were amongst
Wilkie’s patrons, and commissions flowed in faster than he
could execute them.
In the subsequent year, Wilkie and his friend Haydon
made a visit to Paris, as much to acquire some notions ot
French art, ns for improvement of health. Wilkie’s letters
and criticisms on what he saw. prove that he effected the for-
mer object fully and satisfactorily i but his health was little
amended, On his return to London, he still seemed so indis-
posed, that his friends recommended another trip ; he at tin.;
time chose Holland. In his way he visited the field of Water-
loo; his own remarks concerning which, in a letter to Sir
George Beaumont, introduce the origin of his celebrated pic-
ture, the " Chelsea Pensioners reading the Gazette of the
Battle of Waterloo.”
“ The field of Waterloo was to me, as to every English-
man, a subject of the deepest interest. Whatsoever one’s
pursuits might be, it was impossible to visit such a place but
with the keenest associations. I did not expect that, to a
common observer, the genius displayed in the choice of the
ground would be so apparent; but it gave me a most striking
idea of the powers of our great general. I wonder no one
has thought of making a model of the field ; the ruin of llou-
gomont would, by itself, make the finest subject for this that
it is possible to conceive. As I know you will feel interested
in any circumstance of a pleasing nature that occurs to me, I
cannot refrain from mentioning that the Duke of Wellington
has commissioned me to paint him a picture ; and that when
he was last in England, he called upon me with some friends
to give me the subject. He wants it to be a number of soldiers
of various descriptions seated upon the benches of the door of
a public house, with porter and tobacco, talking over their old
stories.”
(To be continued.)
BOOK OF PROVERBS.
[William Tennant.]
Were I to choose for myself and recommend to
others a manual of prudence, a pocket-encyclopaedia
of practical wisdom for every-day use and of univer-
sal applicability to the various actions and cireum-
stances of life, it should neither be the Enchiridion
of Epictetus, nor the poetical precepts of Theognis,
nor the Golden Sayings of the Seven Greek Sages,
nor .the erudite moralities of Antoninus, but the Pro-
verbs of Solomon, the son of David, king of Israel.
Familiarised as we are from infancy with this pre-
cious manual, seeing it vended at the utmost cheapness
by itinerant hawkers, ana carelessly thumbed and
soiled at old women’s village schools, we little con -
sider how highly estimable are its contents- —how it
contains within its brief compass a treasure of wisdom
worthy of the great Oriental name it bears. It is King
Solomon’s proudest trophy, more glorious than the
perishable temple he reared on Mount Moriah ; it
would immortalise and do honour to the greatest
monarch, the greatest philosopher, that ever existed,
It comprehends in compendious space all the most
useful wisdom diffused throughout the voluminous
dissertations, and moralities, and maxims of antiquity
—the marrow, I may say, of the wisdom of all sages
and of all ages. Its rules for conduct are distinct and
intelligible, without any sophistry or obscurity ; its
observations on life strikingly just, without any refine-’


rnents of speculation ; its invitations to wisdom majes-
tically attractive, without any oratorical artifice or
superficial embellishment. The language, like that
of all the other Hebrew writings, is most unadorned
and simple ; yet, by the equally-balanced and con-
trasted clauses into which almost all the verses are
harmoniously arranged, it is so poised and adjusted as
to be helpful to the memory, and to render that faculty,
by the greater readiness of recall, subsidiary to the
judgment. So simple are the precepts as to be com-
prehended even by the child; so deeply wise, so
grounded on the profoundest reflection and sagacity,
as to command the assent and reverence of the man
of grey hairs and experience. Nor are they addressed
to one sect of philosophers merely, to one gradation of
rank, or to one people; they are of universal applica-
tion, and of plain, immediate, obvious reference to
human conduct and affairs : there is not a day, nor an
action or accident in our lives, not a period in our
existence, whether youth, manhood, or old age, to
which they cannot be squared and adapted ; they are
accommodated to every country, every age and stage
of life, every profession and class of society, every
shade and diversity of civilisation. The king and the
beggar, the sage and the simple, the nobleman in his
hall, the mechanic in his workshop, the statesman in
his cabinet, the ploughman on his field, may all draw
from them excellent counsel. They are a salubrious
diet for every mind that is in health ; a panacea for
every mind that is distempered or in disease. And it
may be with confidence asserted, that whoever sallies
out into the complicated business of life, deeply im-
pressed with the influence of this little volume, and
taking its maxims for his regulating chart, will conduct
himself gracefully in every possible situation, and
attain that honour, happiness, and prosperity, which
arc the necessary fruit of that prudence which it in-
spires. In its own impressive language, “ When
thou goest, it shall lead thee ; when thou sleepest, it
shall keep thee ; and when thou awakest, it shall talk
with thee.”
Besides these intrinsic recommendations, the Book
sf Proverbs is enforced upon us by every possible
authority, human and divine. Although the tenor of
its instructions lies all within the range of human
observation and sagacity—is addressed to our under-
standings merely as the fruits and the inculcation of
a sage experience—and is, therefore, as a book of
pure moralities, of different character from those other
books wherein vision and prophecy are, in relation to
the revealed doctrines and bright-approaching era of
Christianity, more particularly employed.
Solomon was not a slave like Epictetus, who, born
to eat the bitter bread of servility, was under the
necessity of obdurating his soul with precepts against
a fortune he deserved not; he was not a man that
walked in the middle paths of life, restricted into
compulsory compliances by the higher part of society
that overtopped and overweighed him ; he was not
noble merely—he was a king —in external rank and
magnificence more splendid than either Greek or
Roman or Egyptian ; his life and person were invested
with imperial glory, saturated to the most overflowing
degree with fame, opulence, and happiness. He had
the command of all wealth, of every luxury ; he had
access to all ranks, to every grade and condition of
mankind, from the monarch of Egypt, his father-in-
law and companion, to his own poorest people, the
wood-hewers on Mount Lebanon. His scope, there-
fore, and sweep of observation, his opportunities of
surveying his own race, of penetrating the mysteries
of that heart which “as in water face answeretli to
face, so everywhere answers to itself,” were so simple
and unobstructed as to have been exceeded by none,
Of pleasure, and glory, and power, he commanded
the enjoyment even to satiety and surfeit. His ex-
perience of life, therefore, may be deemed all-perfect \
and the result of that experience, the maxims of his
wisdom, and the inferences of his observations, come
home upon our souls with a force of persuasion which
no self-love or obduracy can resist.
What a glory is this for the royal sage their author !
—for him whose penetrating sagacity detected, through
every gloss of rank, and every veil of deceit, the
naked deformities of the human heart—who, from
the height of his throne, cast his glance downward
into the diffusive mass of society that lay beneath
him, discriminating all the joys, and wearinesses,
and pains, of our mortal existence —and who, as an
enlivener to its pleasures, an antidote to its sorrows,
and a guide to its difficulties, presented us with this
inestimable gift, the golden fruit of his meditations
and experience ! The personal glory of the monarch,
that of his wealth, his court, his temple, and his con-
quests, have all disappeared; but the fame of the
man who “ filled the world with proverbs” is fresh in
every land. How much more transcendant a cele-
brity is this than that of the multitude of vulgar
kings and oppressors whose names are only known
in connection with the slaughter of mankind, and are
chronicled in letters of blood as the gainers of battles
and the destroyers and devastators of rival kingdoms !
The memorials of Assyrian monarchs, their towers,
their walls, gardens, and sepulchres, are extinguished,
mouldered down into the very soil that supported
them, having left not a trace of their ever having
been ; the monuments of Egyptian tyranny exist
only as immense incumbrances on the earth, testify-
ing to the astonished eye of successive generations
their enormous inutility, and recalling (if they ever at
all recall) the names of their founders to be execrated
as the debasers of the human race : but the name of
the monarch who, u as a flood was filled with under
standing, and whose soul covered the whole earth,'’
shall be ever uttered with admiration and blessing, as
that of one who not only ennobled humanity by the
brightness of his personal example, but still continues
by the influence of his heaven-descended wisdom, to
refine, and elevate, and instruct, and render happy
our nature —a name imperishable throughout earth
and her islands, so long as wisdom shall continue to
be “ the principal thing!”
History.
ANCIENT HISTORY: SECTION XXXII.
THE PUNIC WARS.
]. The triumph which the Romans had obtained over Pyrrhus
seemed to give assurance of success in any enterprise in which
they should engage. The Mamertines, a people of Campania,
who had been in the pay of Agatliocles, and who were desirous
of settling in Sicily, obtained aid from the Romans in an un-
justifiable attempt which they made to seize Messina, a Sicilian
town allied to Syracuse. The Syracusans, at first assisted by the
Carthaginians, opposed this invasion ; but their united forces
were defeated by the Romans. The Syracusans having never
felt the power of the Roman arms, and being more alarmed by


the ambitious encroachments of the Carthaginians on Sicily,
soon repented of this rash alliance, and joined the Romans in
the purpose of expelling the Carthaginians entirely from the
island. In fact, the Sicilians seemed to have had only the
desperate choice of final submission either to Rome or Car-
thage. They chose the former, as the alternative least dis-
honourable : the Romans had ever been their friends, the
Carthaginians their enemies.
2. Agrigentum, possessed by the Carthaginians, was taken,
after a long siege, by the joint forces of Rome and Syracuse.
The Romans, encouraged by this success, and conscious of the
great advantage which the enemy derived from their superio-
rity at sea, determined to have a fleet. A Carthaginian ship
of war, that was stranded on the coast of Italy, is said to
have served as a model, and by a wonderful effort of industry,
the Romans equipped in a few weeks 120 similar vessels—the
first fleet they ever had. Inferior to their enemy in the art of
manoeuvring their vessels, they invented machines for grap-
pling, and bringing a sea-fight to resemble a land-fight. By
this means the consul Dicilius gained a complete victory over
the Carthaginians. Carthage at this time was the greatest
maritime power in the world, 260 b.c. These successes were
followed by the reduction of Corsica and Sardinia. In a second
naval engagement, the Romans took from the Carthaginians
sixty of their ships of war, and now resolutely prepared for the
invasion of Africa. The consul Regulus commanded the ex-
pedition. He advanced to the gates of Carthage; and such
was the general consternation, that the enemy proposed a
capitulation. Inspirited, however, by a timely aid of Greek
troops under Xantippus, the Carthaginians made a desperate
effort, and defeating the Roman army, made Regulus their
prisoner. But repeatedly defeated in Sicily, they were at
length seriously desirous of a peace ; and the Roman general
was sent with their ambassadors to Rome to aid the negotia-
tion, under a solemn oath to return to Carthage as a prisoner,
should the treaty fail. It was rejected at the urgent desire of
Regulus himself, who thus sacrificed his life to what he judged
the interest of his country.*
3. The war still continued, and Lilyboeum the strongest of
the Sicilian towns belonging to Carthage, was taken after a
siege of nine years. After some alternate successes, two naval
battles won by the Romans terminated the war ; and Carthage
at last obtained a peace, on the humiliating terms of abandon-
ing all her possessions in Sicily, the payment of 3,200 talents
of silver, the restitution of all prisoners without ransom, and
a solemn engagement never to make war against Syracuse
or her allies. The island of Sicily was now declared a Roman
province, with the exception of Syracuse, which still main-
tained her independent government (a.u.c. 511, and b.c. 241).
1 hus terminated the first Punic war, after a contest of twenty-
four years. The temple of Janus was now shut, an event
which had not happened since the reign of Numa, being a
period of nearly 500 years.
4. The peace between Rome and Carthage was of twenty-
three year’s duration. The latter power was recruiting her
strength, and meditated to revenge her losses and disgrace.
The second Punic war began on the part of the Carthaginians,
who besieged Saguutum, a city of Spain in alliance with the
Romans. The young Hannibal took Saguntum, after a siege
of seven months; the desperate inhabitants setting fire to the
town, and perishing amidst the flames (b.c. 219). Hannibal
now formed the bold design of carrying the war into Italy.
He provided against every difficulty, gained to his interest a
part ot the Gallic tribes, passed the Pyrenees, and finally the
Alps, in a toilsome march of five months and a half from his
Carthagena; and arrived in Italy with 20,000 foot and
6,000 horse.
5. In the first engagement the Romans were defeated, and
they lost two other important battles at Trebia and the lake
Tbrasymenus. In the latter of these the consul Flaminius
was killed, and his army cut to pieces. Hannibal advanced to
Cannae in Apulia ; and the Romans there opposing him with
their whole force, a memorable defeat ensued, in which 40,000
were left dead upon the field, and amongst these the consul
VEmilius, and almost the whole holy of the Roman knights.
Had Hannibal taken advantage of this great victory, by in-
stantly attacking Rome, the fate of the republic was inevitable ;
but he deliberated, and the occasion was lost. The Romans
concentrated all their strength ; even the slaves armed in the
common cause, and victory once more attended the standards
of the republic. Philip, king of Macedon, joined his forces
to the Carthaginians, but, defeated by Levinus, speedily
withdrew his assistance. Hannibal retreated before the brave
Marcellus. Syracuse had now taken part with Carthage, and
thus paved the way for the loss of her own liberty. Marcellus
besieged the city, which was long defended by the inventive
genius of Archimedes, but taken in the third year by escalade
in the night. This event put an end to the kingdom of Syra-
cuse, which now became a part of the Roman province of Sicily
(a.u.c. 542,' b.c. 212.)
6. While the war in Italy was prosperously conducted by
the great Fabius, who, by constantly avoiding a general en-
gagement, found the true method of weakening his enemy, the
younger Scipio accomplished the entire reduction of Spain.
Asdrubal was sent into Italy to the aid of his brother Hanni-
bal, but was defeated by the consul Claudius Nero, and slain
in battle. This fatal defeat destroyed the prospects ot Han-
nibal, and encouraged the efforts of the Romans. Scipio,
now triumphant in Spain, passed over into Africa, and car-
ried havoc and devastation to the gates of Carthage. Alarmed
for the fate of their empire, the Carthaginians hastily recalled
Hannibal from Italy, after having retained possession of the
fairest portions of it for seventeen years. The battle of
Zama decided the fate of the war ; Hannibal was defeated
for the first time—with difficulty escaped from the field, and
arriving at Carthage brought the account of the total destruc-
tion of his army. The Carthaginians enlreated a peace,
which the Romans gave on these conditions : that the Cartha-
ginians should abandon Spain, Sicily, and all the islands
lying between Italy and Africa ; surrender all their prisoners,
give up the whole of their fleet except ten gallies, pay within
the period of fifty years 10,000 talents, and, in future, under-
take no war without the consent of the Romans (a.u c. 552,
b.c. 202). Thus ended the second Punic war, so glorious to
Rome and honourable to Scipio, to whom his country decreed
a triumph, and the surname of Africanus.
7. Every ; thing now concurred to swell the pride of the
conquerors and to extend their dominion ; and their arms for
the first time showed themselves in Greece. A war with
Philip 11., of Macedon, was undertaken, and terminated by
his defeat; and his son Demetrius was sent to Rome as a hos-
tage for the payment of a heavy tribute imposed on the van-
quished (b.c. 198). This was soon followed by a war with
Andochus the Great, king of Syria, who had offended them by
opposing their arms in Greece, and affording an asylum to
Hannibal, who had been forced by a faction at Carthage to
seek refuge at his court. Andochus was defeated at Ther-
mopylae, and pursued into Syria ; he was again defeated at
Magnesia, and obliged to sue for peace. The war was term! •
nated by bis ceding to the Romans the whole of the Lesser
Asia as far as Mount Taurus, the half of his ships, and agree-
ing to pay 15,000 talents towards the expenses of the war
(b.c. 191.)
8. Philip of Macedon, having put to death his son Deme-
trius, who had concluded a treaty of amity with the Romans,
on the false representation of his elder son Perseus, on disco-
vering his error was tormented by remorse, and died a short
time after. He was succeeded by Perseus, who, among the
first of his acts, formed an alliance with several of the Grecian
states to make war against the Romans. This war terminated
in the total defeat of Perseus, in his being carried captive to
Rome to adorn the triumph of Paulus and in the
reduction of Macedon into a Roman province (b.c. 169).. Put
these splendid conquests, while they enlarged the empire* were
fatal to its virtues, and subversive of the pure and venerable
simplicity of ancient times.
9. The third Punic war began a.u.c. 605, b c. 149., and
ended in the ruin of Carthage. An unsuccessful war*with
Masmissa, King of Numidia, had reduced the Carthaginians
to great weakness, and the Romans meanly laid hold of that
opportunity to invade Africa, and to destroy their once for-
midable rival. Conscious of their utter inability to resist
this formidable power, the Carthaginians offered every sub-
mission, and consented even to acknowledge themselves th<*
* Some of the ancient authors have asserted that Regulus
was put to death in a cruel manner by the Carthaginians, but
tne truth of this is now very much doubted.


subjects of Rome. The senate promised them every degree
of favour on condition that they should perform what was re-
quired of them, and demanded 300 hostages of high rank for
the strict performance of every stipulation. The hostages
were given ; a Roman army was landed in Africa, and the
first condition required was, that they should deliver up all
their arms and military stores—which having been submitted
to with reluctance, the Roman consul next demanded that the
population should abandon the city, and that Carthage itself
should be razed to the foundation. Despair gave courage to
this miserable people, and they determined to die in the de-
fence of their native city. But the noble effort was in vain.
Carthage was taken by storm, its inhabitants massacred, and
the city burnt to the ground (a.u.c. 607, b.c. 146). Thus a
city which had contained 700,000 inhabitants, and had flou-
rished for 1,000 years, sank, never again to rise with inde-
pendence.
10. The same year was signalized by the destruction of
Corinth, and the entire reduction of Greece into a Roman
province, under the name of Acliaia. This was the era of the
dawn of luxury and taste at Rome, the natural fruit of foreign
wealth, and an acquaintance with foreign manners. In the
unequal distribution of this imported wealth, the vices to
which it gave rise, the corruption and venality of which it
became tlio instrument, we see the remoter causes of those
fatal disorders to which the republic owed its dissolution.
MY UNCLE’S DRESSING-GOWN.
With my earliest recollections of Uncle Watson, are
associated an old blue dressing-gown, which he w r ore
for many years, in spite of the dilapidated condition
of the garment and the remonstrances of his friends.
My Uncle Watson had the reputation of being a
little miserly in his disposition. I have no reason to
say so ; for he made myself and my sister a handsome
present every birth-day. His enemies said he was
poor ; had that been the case, he could, on each occa-
sion, have easily given us something less expensive,
and retained enough to buy himself a new' robe-de-
cliambre. Still this opinion was somewhat corrobo-
rated, vrhen I asked him one day why he did not pro-
vide himself wdth a new one ? “ Oh," he replied, £i if
1 once begin, there is no knowing where such expenses
will end." On looking around, I could not help
thinking that a few pounds, laid out in furniture,
would have increased the old gentleman's comfort.
He lived in a small but pretty cottage in the suburbs
of London ; and one of the parlours was converted
into a study, in which he mostly sat. The furniture
was nearly as old as the dressing-gown. My uncle
boasted that his carpet had been in wear ever since
he occupied the house, which was nearly a quarter
of. a century, and, originally, he bought it second-
hand. The pattern was only visible here and there,
so variegated was it with darns and patches. His
usual seat was an old bergere chair, which, when it
came into his possession, was stuffed with horsehair ;
hut the hair had gradually departed, leaving the seat
as bare and bald as my uncle’s head. His writing-
desk could never be closed, in consequence of the bad
condition of one of its hinges. His book-case had
but one door ; and most of his books were in worn-
out bindings, or no bindings at all; the oval look-
ing-glass had a crack in it, and a, part of the window
curtain hung in an unintentional festoon, in conse-
quence of the dropping of a nail; the footstool wanted
a leg, and the fender a foot; in short, the scene of my
uncle in his study was one of decay and dilapidation.
As if to render this eccentricity the more remark-
able, my uncle at home and my uncle abroad seemed
two different persons. Though he spent the most of
his time with either a pen or a hook in his hand, his:
habits were not unsocial, He often joined my j
father's quiet dinners, Had you seen him at such 1
times, you would have imagined that, instead of hav-
ing emerged from his forlorn sanctum, he had stepped
out of a band-box. The nicest attention to the toilet
was observable in every part of his attire. His spot-
less shoes were fastened by a broad buckle of* the
brightest silver ; his silken hose were without a wrin-
kle ; his nether garment without a speck. The
double-breasted white waistcoat, and neatly crimped
chitterlings, showed that his laundry was conducted
by a skilful hand. The venerable respectability of
his appearance was much increased by the queue
which whitened the collar of his coat—for he stuck
to hair-powder in spite of the tax. Then, the sprightly
politeness of his manners contrasted strongly with his
almost slothful ease when secluded in his study, He
was a problem which no one could solve ; many had
their theories concerning him, but none appeared to
be more absurd than my sister’s ; “ Depend upon it,’
she would declare in the midst of a discussion on the
subject—“ depend upon it, ’tis all owing to that musty
old dressing-gown !”
It is astonishing with what tenacity some persons
(particularly women) will often cling to a particular
idea, be it ever so extravagant and unreasonable. It
was thus with my sister. With that total indepen *
dence of received notions of cause and effect, she
would insist that the broken furniture and careless
domestic habits of Uncle Watson were owing entirely
to the old wrapper ; and, in the fulness of her wis-
dom, she one day bought a handsome new one, of
that kind which are ticketted up in the drapers’ shops
as schals de cashmere. The pattern was a brown and
green, and the whole affair was lined with a brilliant
red silk, and made to fasten round the waist with a
cord and tassel. When she exhibited it to us, we
laughed outright at the monstrous expectation that
Uncle Watson would ever wear such a thing. “Wait
and see,” said my sister, “ there is no hurry. Ido
not expect to be able to effect my object all at once.
If I get it over his threshold in three months, and
upon his back in six, I shall be satisfied. You know
the old £ne cannot last for ever ; It will drop off some
day soon, I’m certain.” There was no saying, after
all—for when once they take anything into their
heads, girls are surprisingly persevering.
She began her siege like a skilful general, by cau-
tious approaches, At first she took up a distant
position ; she intreated my uncle to get his dressing-
gown washed, well knowing it would fall to pieces in
the operation, So much, however, had been said
from first to last about the unfortunate piece of ap-
parel, that the topic, like the subject of it, was a
well-worn one; and my uncle showed that he was
heartily tired of it, by a hint to my sister to mind her
own flounces instead of
“Of yours; eh, uncle V' she said, archly catching
up a rag which depended from the skirt. Upon this
the old gentleman laughed heartily, and my sister,
finding him in such a good humour, was thrown off
her guard, and too rashly mentioned her purchase.
Uncle Watson was angry ; who, he should like to
know, invited her to lay out her pocket-money—
which was, in all conscience, little enough —for him'?
But he would punish her; he would not even look at
it. u No no, child,” he concluded; “this will last
my time.” My sister was much disappointed with
this interview, and declared that it had put her
schemes back at least a month. But this time she
was mistaken,


My uncle’s domestic establishment appeared com-
pletely unique to whoever had seen his aged house-
keeper. This capacious lady had gone through quite
as much service in her generation, and was as nearly
worn out as his dressing-gown. Mrs. Muddle, who
had —like her cap and her sable habiliments—seen
better days, could not, by any arts of intreaty or
interest, be brought over to my sister’s side of the
question. Long habit—that despot of the aged-
bound her to the old dressing-gown as firmly as if
on its existence, more than on that of her master,
depended the tenure of her place ; which, to all ap-
pearance, was by no means a bad one. Her reverence
and respect for the unsightly garment was only second
to that which she felt for the wearer. To have re-
moved that object from her daily sight would have
deranged her ideas, and “ put her out” in the routine
of her duties. She therefore gave a decided and un-
compromising negative to being art or part in per-
suading my uncle to wear the new robe-de-chambre.
a Still,” said my sister, handing her the parcel about
a week after the first failure, “ there can be no objec-
tion to its remaining here for the present; for in the
end, you know, Mrs. Muddle, it may come in for a
gown for you.” The old lady was mollified, and
locked it away with the groceries in the store-closet.
The day after this achievement Uncle Watson dined
with us. As the time approached for his return, a
violent storm began, and Mrs. Muddle, with com-
mendable foresight, placed his gown and slippers
before the study file. The storm raged more violently,
and every now and then the careful body looked in
to see if the wrapper was getting warm, and to place
it nearer the grate. At length my uncle’s knock was
heard. The moment he got admitted, he smelt a
strong and unpleasant odour ; it was something like
a mixture of burnt cork and the steam of bad soup.
“ Something burning,” he remarked. Alas, poor
gentleman ? had he known what was on fire, he
would have expressed himself a little more strongly.
He opened the door of his study ; it was filled with
smoke ; he rushed to the fire-place, and there beheld
his cherished dressing-gown smouldering gradually
away ; one skirt already consumed, and the left arm
in imminent peril. My uncle promptly tore the trea-
sured ruin from the chair, rolled it up in the hearth-
rug, and having completely extinguished the fire,
stood struggling with sorrow ; as if he yearned to
perform—like Mark Antony with the mantle of Caesar
—a funeral oration over the rags.
It is not on record whether my uncle slept that
night. I rather think, by his haggard appearance next
morning, that he had not. At all events he was con-
siderably more gay in outward appearance than in
inward spirits, for conceive my astonishment to find
him, when I called, bedizened in the flaming new
dressing-gown ! I could scarcely believe my eyes,
so completely were they dazzled by the brown, green,
and crimson. I shook the old gentleman’s hand in
hearty congratulation, and expressed how 7 delighted
my sister would be with her triumph. But my uncle
did not appear grateful for the present; he cast a
rueful glance at his faded slippers ; and well he
might, for they were a had match to the new dressing
gown.
It became evident, after a few 7 day’s wear, that the
splendid garment did not increase my uncle’s comfort.
While w riting, he could not, as heretofore, wipe his
Ten on the cuff—a great deprivation and check of his
freewill. The taking a pinch of snuff, also, became
a far more elaborate process than heretofore ; he
dreaded lest any should fall on the silk facings.
While inducting himself into his uneasy chair, he felt
it incumbent on him to draw the skirts aside, lest he
should crease them. Neither, as was his former wont,
could he with propriety dust the edges of a book, on
removing it from the shelves, with the skirt; nor use
them to give the last touch of polish to his silver shoe
buckles. In short, my uncle in the new dressing-
gown exhibited all the symptoms of one of the finny
tribe when it is withdrawn from its native element.
In spite of all this, Uncle Watson became his new
dress amazingly. Age had been kind to him ; he
still possessed a tall upright figure : his thinned
whitened locks, and the pleasing gravity of his fea-
tures, completely softened the flaunting appearance
of the tri-colored robe. He put me in mind, when
arrayed in it, of such a fine old nobleman as they
show on the stage in the breakfast scenes of a senti-
mental comedy. Nor was the effect quite lost upon
him ; for I remarked, on more than one occasion, that
he looked in the cracked glass.
The news of my uncle’s change of habits spread
like wildfire, and he was for some weeks besieged
with visits professedly to him, while in reality they
were calls on his new dressing-gown. His only
sitting and reception room being the study, he began
to feel a little ashamed of its furniture ; and one day,
when my wicked sister had brought some friends to
exhibit my uncle in his fancy-dress, he actually con-
sulted her about the pattern of a new carpet. She
told him to leave it to her. He consented ; and in
four~and-twenty hours the floor of “ that house” was
adorned with a beautiful Brussels, which turned out
an admirable match to the dressing-gown ; for it exhi-
bited its three identical colours to a shade. “ Change, ’
saitli the poet, “ begetteth change,” and this com-
pleted the revolution. Old-fashioned worn-out
rickety tables and chairs standing upon a beautiful
new carpet, showed like patches upon the face of
Venus, or Gobelin tapestries in a broker’s shop. My
uncle could not endure the discrepancy. Besides,
the carpet felt so soft to his feet (for the wafer-like
thinness of his old slippers rendered his understand-
ings extremely sensitive), that he was constantly
reminded, by a parity of reasoning, of the hard-
ness of his seat j so that the next time we visited
him, a luxurious fauteuii stood in the place of the
shabby bergere. My uncle, however, made a stout
stand at the table. He tried repairs ; but the hope-
less piece of goods was past them ; the new glue tore
open the old joints ; and one morning, on my uncle
coming down to breakfast, he found his favourite piece
of furniture strewing the flowery expanse of carpet
with detached boards, like a timber-yard after a high
wind. Upon this my uncle fell into a furious reck-
less state of despair. He sent for an upholsterer,
gave him a carte-blanche, and, dreading to face the
effects of his rashness, rushed into the country ; but
not before the bewildered Mrs. Muddle had given him
legal warning to quit.
Though it is only a twelvemonth ago that my uncle
returned to his renovated domicile, yet you would be
astonished at the alteration which has taken place in
the whole of his habits, mental a 3 well as external,
Call at any time, and you will find him precisely the
same man as he used to be in company—cheerful
and chatty. The manner in which he now lives has


proved to the world that he is neither a miser nor a
misanthrope. That he is not poor has been evidenced
towards my dear sister in a most agreeable manner.
She had long been engaged to a schoolfellow of mine,
a worthy person, whom circumstances had prevented
from marrying. Uncle Watson, knowing this, bought
the other day a small estate, on which he has granted
her a life-rent, on condition that she does feudal ser-
vice, by annually presenting him with a new' dress-
ing-gown. The end of my story is, that she w'as
married last week ; the whole string of events being,
she still reiterates, entirely owing to that “ musty old
dressing-gown.”
BILLY WHITE.
[From the Liverpool Kaleidoscope .]
Perhaps Addison was not fully aware how much he was
verifying that trite motto of Horace’s, “ Dulce est desipere in
loco," when he set his brains to work to find out, and lay
before the public, a dissertation on the beauties of “ Chevy
Chaseyet I have known several respectable personages
who, quite satisfied that everything from that great master’s
pen must be good, have read the same critique with as great
a ratio of pleasurable feelings, as the brother one, on " Para-
dise Lost, - ’ afforded them. Hoping, therefore, that the gene-
rality of my readers may be as purblind as the above-mentioned
gentlemen, tmd with all due sense of my own audacity in fol-
lowing a path my illustrious prototype has trod before me, I
beg leave to hand you a few critical remarks on a poem 1
discovered a few days ago, among my antiquarian researches,
which for vastness of design, originality of idea, pathos of
sentiment, and pithiness of expression, cannot be excelled,
even by the ballads of Homer bound together for the amuse-
ment of the Dauphin, or the crying but pious heroes of him
of Mantua. This poem is a most exquisite specimen of the
Doric; and its effect upon its reader so prodigious, that, to
use the language of that learned pedagogue, my good friend
Mr. Lemuel Longphiz, it can either sublimate the soaring
soul above the sublunary system of solidities, or precipitate
it to the dismal depths of Dis, darkness and desperation.
The poem is printed in black-letter, in fine preservation,
and bearing a date so early as 16<30; but, alas ! the author’s
name is concealed; nor have I, with all my researches, ascer-
tained this important point: its date, however, and a few
allusions in the preface, strongly incline me to believe it a
translation from the Italian of Dante: the deep horrific spirit
it breathes, softened down and shaded by the lighter graces of
poetry, tends to support this hypothesis.
The poem is entitled “ The ryght merry and gamesome Iyfe
and trystefull death of Gtoylian White, ycleped Billy." Then
follows a long preface or proem, and finally comes the poem
itself, The first stanzas are :
“ Billy Whyte was a tailor by trade,
And, in truth, he was a natty blade;
And he fell in love with one Sail Green,
And a beautifuller vench was not never seen."
In the first verse we ascertain the lowness of our hero s
origin, a circumstance which true merit can alone gild or
efface ; and this fine and original apothegm (my own) is beau-
tifully introduced into the second line by the word “natty,"
a term which, although now nearly obsolete, is matchless for
conciseness and force ; and here the great art of the author is
displayed. After having read the first line, we naturally set
the hero down as a pusillanimous, weak creature, as forming
a member of the body corporate of a profession, whose apper-
tained, by the Jaws of society, are allowed to form but the
ninth part of a natural and social creature ; with this idea we
enter into the second line, when the sudden bursting of the
word “natty” on our senses, creates a total revulsion of ideas,
and a complete revolution in the injured Billy’s favour. The
succeeding distich is simple, elegant, and terse. Billy’s tender
heart is made captive by Miss S. Green, whose beauty we
shall find by and bye is not her only perfection.
“ Now, this Sail Green, as you must know,
Loved this here White but very so so;
For she was a maid veil warsed in letters,
And wery well fit to be this here White’s betters.’
Alas poor White! thy fate was cruel indeed: with all Sally’s
beauty her high soul disdained a connection where the feast
of reason would not preside; her finished education, and con-
stant association with men of literature, had robbed her mind
of its feminine softness, and in its lieu imparted a rich soil for
cultivati an: in short, Sally was a blue-stocking. White pro-
bably had never let his studies migrate beyond “ Reading
made easy,’ 1 or the “ Multiplication Table,” and consequently
was despised by her he adored. The great beauty of this
quadruplet consists in what Quintilian calls the “ Demon-
strativum,” and Dr. Blair “The finger-post system:” for
example, “.this here” and “this;" it marks the objects very
distinctly, and when well introduced, is far from being caco-
phonous.
“ Now Billy vent to his shop-board to veep,
And vept himself full fast asleep :
And in his sleep appeared old Nick—
‘ Go poison Sally Green with some arsenick.' ”
This verse is quite soul-harassing : irritated by his mistress's
taunts and neglects, Billy rushes magnanimously to his shop ;
he surveys his board with the hatred of despair, as the accursed
cause of his misery; then sits down (cross-legged we are to
presume) and sinks into Morpheus’ arms; but either the un-
easiness of his tortured mind, or Turk-like position, produces
a dream so singular, that, blinded by his ideas of fatalism, he
obeys the voice of the enemy of mankind, like another Santon
Barissa, and prepares to murder the object of his idolatry.
There is a good deal of fine poetry in this verse, but the suc-
ceeding one is evidently the chef d’ceuvre of the whole poem.
“ Now, to poison her he was wery, wery loth,
Yet he mixed it up in some sheep’s-head broth ;
So she drank it all up, as long as she was able,
And fell, smack dead, right under the table.”
This is most exquisite : the sound here is the complete
echo of the sense. How fine is the delay pictured by the re-
petition of the word “ wery !” how tender is his care in mixing
the deadly drug in a liquor it should seem his victim was
partial to ! then how awfully imposing the quick hurried
monosyllables of the third line, betokening the length and
depth of the draught; and how agonisingly expressive the
word “smack,” in the fourth line! We feel, we hear the
fall; the dead lumpy weight of the hapless maiden’s corpse is
present to our view; the empty porringer; the mute despair
expressed in the elongated face, extended eyes, and chattering
teeth of the conscience-struck Billy. Let us draw a veil o’er
this terrible scene : it is more horribly horrifying than the
“ rueing of the babe unborn” in “'Chevy Chase,” or the
pumpkin nose of Cherubina, in the “Heroine.”
“Now Billy he fell fast asleep,
When, lo! appeared the ghost of a sheep.
Said the sheep, ‘ Bah ; with my head
You did poison a beautiful maid.
Old Nick sent me here to bring you away;
So here, ’.pon my word, you must no longer stay;
So quickly tuck yourself up in your garters,
And I’ll carry you off on my hind quarters.’ ”
After the execution of the foul deed, Billy takes a few drops
of a composing draught, and steps into bed ; when 10l appears
io bis astonished sight the ghost of a mutton, in all the com-
posing dignity ofhead and tail, fore-quarter and hind quarter,
and in the calmest manner reproaches White for the double


murder. The simj le language of nature, exemplified in the
word “ Bah,” is one of the happiest and most touching strokes
in the whole poem; and swearing by its “ word,” is a strong
and presumptive proof that the “ olden poets” believed in the
"Metempsychosis,” and that the sheep was only practising
a fashionable oath before its infusion into the body of some
mincing maccaroni, or birth-night belle. The devil here
shows himself no better than he should be, an aider and
abettor of suicide! yet there is one exquisite touch of sensi-
bility, in giving Billy his garters, as an instrument of self-
destruction-; an article of wearing apparel, dear to every life-
wearied death-seeking Damon and Phillis, since the days of
Sophonisba, and Hansi, the wife of Choary; to those of her,
famous in song and minstrelsy, ycleped “ Bailly.” With
these instruments White tucks himself up, and makes his exit
frorp “ this dull mundane orb,” replete with sin and wicked-
ness, first putting his legs astride the sheep, who acts the part
of a post-horse to carry him to his infernal journey’s end.
“ Then off they wanished in a flame of fire,
Which made all the neighbours wery much to admire ;
As how they’d not such a sight before,
And they’ll not never see such a sight no more.”
This is subtimissimuTn sublimissimorum ; every line is Dantean,
every semi-demi-syllable terribly terrific; the images of horror
in the first line, their effect in the second, and the unpre-
cedented, unexampled, and uvfuturable testimony in the third
and fourth, are truly magnificent, and would pass the ordeal
of the most fiery critic in Europe; all is grand, lofty, sonorous,
and intelligible. In the first line we tremble, the next we
shake ; in the third we have a bad fit of the ague, and the
fourth throws us into violent hysterics, from which the gentle
anodyne of the “ moral,” as soft as sighing southern gales,
and as effective as sal volatile, comes upon us, and, shedding
it 3 witching balm around us, restores our senses and ideas to
their former harmony.
“ Now all ye maids and married,
Take varning by this chap what’s dead ;
For if he had not never done nobody no wrong,
lie might have been here to hear this here song.”
This is as refreshing as an ice-cream in July ; and here the
poet reins in his gloomy imagination, and laying aside the
tragic buskin, pours forth as soft and sweet a quadruplet as
ever trilled from the pen of Petrarch, or the author of the
Babes in the Wood ;” composing and allaying our disordered
souls by his magical harmony, and leaving our ideas (like
I ony Lumpkin and his mother) in the precise same spot from
which we had first commenced our journey. Oh hapless
lovers ! Oh divine Dante! Oh execrable sheep’s head ! Oh
charming poesy !
Varieties.
A Good Wife.— Sir James Mackintosh, in a letter to Dr.
Paw, says of his wife, then recently deceased Allow me in
justice to her memory, to tell you what she was, and what I
owed her. I was guided in my choice only by the blind affec-
tl°l? i?‘ y® uth > a °d might have formed a connection in
which a short-lived passion would have been followed by re-
pentance and disgust: but I found an intelligent companion,
a tender friend, a prudent monitress, the most faithful wife,
and as dear a mother as ever children had the misfortune to
lose. Had I married a woman who was easy or giddy enouo-h
to be infected by my imprudence, or who had rudely and
harshly attempted to correct it, I should, in either case, have
been irretrievably ruined ; a fortunate in either case would,
with my habits, have been only a shorter cut to destruction.
Hut 1 met a woman who, by the tender management of mv
weaknesses, gradually corrected the most pernicious of tliern
and rescued me from the dominion of a degrading and ruin-
ous vice. She became prudent from affection ; and though of
the most generous nature, she vyas taught economy and fru-
gality by her love for me. During the most critical period of
my hie, she preserved order in my affairs, from the care of
which she relieved me; she gently reclaimed me from dissipa-
tion ; she propped my weak and irresolute nature ; she urged
my indolence to all the exertions that have been useful and
creditable tome; and she was perpetually at hand to admo-
nish my heedlessness and improvidence. To her I owe it that
I am not a ruined outcast; to her whatever I shall be. Jn
her solicitude for my interest she never forgot my feelings and
my character. Even in her occasional resentment —for which
I hut too often gave just cause ('would to God that I could
recal those moments!) —she had no sullenness or acrimony.
Her feelings were warm and impetuous—but she was placable,
tender, and constant. She united the most tender prudence
with the most generous and guileless nature, with a spirit that
disdained the shadow of meanness, and with the kindest and
most honest heart. Such was she whom I have lost; and I have
lost her when her excellent natural sense was rapidly improving,,
after eight years of struggle and distress had bound us fast
together, and moulded our tempers to each other; when a
knowledge of her worth had refined my youthful love into
friendship, before age had deprived it of much of its orio-inal
ardour. I lost her, alas! (the choice of my youth, and the
partner of my misfortunes,) at u moment when I had the
prospect of her sharing my better days. To expect that any-
thing on this side the grave can make it up, would be a vain
and delusive expectation. If l had lost the giddy and
thoughtless companion of prosperity, the world could easily
repair the loss ; but 1 have lost the faithful and tender partner
of my misfortunes, and my only consolation is in that Ileing
under whose severe and paternal chastisement I am cut down
to the ground.’'
“ What’s in a Name ?—A native of lowa, by the name of
New, recently got married, and being of a somewhat facetious
turn of mind, named his first born “ Something,” which of
course was “ Something New.” The second was christened
“ Nothing,” it being “ Nothing New.”
Fire proof. —lt has been proved by repeated experiments,
that straw saturated with a solution of lime, or common white
wash, is incombustible. The fact is of great importance to the
rural population, especially as thatch is thus not only rendered
fire-proof, hut more durable.
Axilla, King of the Huns, died in 453, and was buried in
the midst of a vast champaign, in a coffin which was enclosed
in one of gold, another of silver, and a third of iron. With the
body were interred all the spoils of the enemy, hainess embroi-
dered with gold and studded with jewels, rich silks, and
whatever they had taken most precious in the palaces of kings
they had pillaged ; and that the place of his interment might
for ever remain concealed, the Huns deprived of life all who
had assisted at his burial.
Steam Engine. —There is, to our thinking, something
awfully grand in the contemplation of a vast steam -engine.
Stand amid its ponderous beams and bars, wheels and cylin
ders, and watch their unceasing play; how regular and how
powerful!—the machinery of a lady’s Geneva watch is not
more nicely adjusted—the rush of the avalanche is not more
awful in itsstrength. Old Gothic cathedrals are solemn places,
preaching solemn lessons, touching solemn things; but to him
who thinks, an engine-room may preach a more solemn lesson
still. It will tell him of mind—mind wielding matter at its
will—mind triumphing over physical difficulties man as-
serting his great supremacy—“ intellect battling with the
elements.” And how exquisitely complete is every detail!
how subordinate every part towards the one great end !—how
every little bar and screw fit and work together ! Vast as is
the machine, let a holt be but the tenth-part of an inch too
long or too short, and the whole fabric is disorganized. It is
one complete piece of harmony—an iron essay upon unity of
design and execution. There is deep poetry in the steam
engine—more of the poetry of motion than in the bound of an
antelope—more of the poetry of power than in the dash of a
cataract. And ought it not to be a lesson to those who laugh
at novelties, and put no faith in inventions, to consider that
tins complex fabric—this triumph of art and science—was
once the laughing-stock of jeering thousands, and once only
the waking phantasy of a boy’s mind as he sat and in seeming
idleness watched a little column of vapour rise from the spout
of a tea-kettle?— llluminated, Magazine.
Nature and Art.— A lecturer, addressing a Hampshire
audience, contended, with tiresome prolixity, that Art could
not improve Nature, until one of his hearers, losing all path
ence, set the room in a roar by exclaiming—•< How would you
look without your wig ?” 3
. The Mediterranean Sea is recorded to have been twice
frozen over ; once a,d. 869, and again a.d. 1234, and on both
occasions the merchants carried their goods over in carts.


The Moralist.
THE SOUL OF MAN.
The blessings, O man ! of thy external part, are health,
vigour, and proportion. The greatest of these is health.
What health is to the body, even that is honesty to the soul,
That thou hast a soul, is of all knowledge the most certain,
of all truths the most plain unto thee.
Be meek, be grateful for it. Seek not to know it, it is in-
scrutable.
Thinking, understanding, reasoning, willing, call not these
the soul! they are its actions, but they are not its essence.
Think not with Arabia, that one soul is parted among all
men ; neither believe thou with the sons of Egypt, that every
man hath many : know, that as thy heart, so also thy soul is one.
Doth not the sun harden the clay ? doth it not also soften
the wax ? as it is one sun that worketh both, even so it is one
soul that willeth contraries.
As the moon retaineth her nature, though darkness spread
itself before her face as a curtain, so the soul remaineth perfect,
even in the bosom of a fool.
She is immortal; she is unchangeable; she is alike in all.
Health calleth her forth to show her loveliness, and applica-
tion anointeth her with the oil of wisdom.
Although she shall live after thee, think not she wa3 born
before thee. She was concreated with thy flesh, and formed
with thy brain.
Justice could not give her to thee exalted by virtues, nor
mercy deliver her to thee delormed by vices. These must be
thine, and thou must answer for them.
Suppose not death can shield thee from examination ; think
not corruption can hide thee from inquiry. He who formed
thee of thou knowest not what, can he not raise thee to thou
knowest not what again.
Canst thou think too greatly of thy soul ? or can too much
be said in its praise ? it is the image of him who gave it.
Remember thou its dignity for ever ; forget not how great
a talent is committed to thy charge.
Whatsoever may do good, may also do harm. Beware that
thou direct her course to virtue.
Think not that thou canst lose her in the crowd ; suppose
not that thou canst bury her in thy closet. Action is her
delight, and she will not be withheld from it.
Her motion is perpetual : her attempts are universal; her
agility is not to be suppressed. Is it at the uttermost parts of
the earth ? she will have it: is it beyond the region of the
stars ? yet will her eye discover it.
Inquiry is her delight. As one who traverseth the burning
sands in search of water, so is the soul that searcheth after
knowledge.
Guard her, for she is rash ; restrain her for she is irregular;
correct her, for she is outrageous; more supple is she than
water; more flexible than wax ; more yielding than air. Is
there aught can bind her ?
As a sword in the hand of a madman, even so is the soul
to him who wanteth discretion.
The end of her search is truth ; her means to discover it
are reason and experience. But are not these weak, uncertain,
and fallacious ? how then shall she attain unto it ?
General opinion is no proof of truth, for the generality of
men are ignorant.
Perceivest thou of thyself, the knowledge of him who created
thee, the sense of the worship thou owest unto him ? are not
these plain before thy face ? and behold! what is there more
that man needeth to know ?
MORAL MAXIMS.
alphabetically arranged.
No. 33.
Choleric men sin in haste and repent at leisure.
Choler is a good common soldier, but a bad commander.
Church work goes on slowly.
Churlishness in old age must be condemned, but in youth it
is insupportable.
Civilities are for all men, and good offices for our friends.
Civility is a kind of charm that attracts the iove of all men.
Civility is always safe, but pride creates enemies.
Civilly glance at the imperfections of friends, but never
rudely stare at them.
Civil war is a deluge that levels alike the cottage ana the
palace.
Cleanliness is the elegance of the poor.
Clemency is the brightest jewel in a crown.
Close not your eyes at night til! you have opened your lip:
in prayer.
Select Poetry.
WILD FLOWERS
Beautiful children of the woods and fields 1
That bloom by mountain streamlets ’mid the heather,
Or into clusters, 'neath the hazels, gather—
Or where by hoary rocks you make your bields,
And sweetly flourish on through summer weather—
I love ye all!
Beautiful flowers! to me ye fresher seem
From the Almighty hand that fashioned all,
Than those that flourish by a garden-wall;
And I can image you, as in a dream,
Fair, modest maidens, nursed in hamlets small—
I love ye ail!
Beautiful gems! that on the brow of earth
Are fixed, as in a queenly diadem:
Though lowly ye, and most without a name,
Young hearts rejoice to see your buds come forth,
As light erewhile into the world came—
I love ye ail!
Beautiful things ye are, where’er ye grow!
The wild red rose—the speedwell’s peeping eyes—-
Our own bluebell—the daisy, that doth rise
Wherever sunbeams fall or winds do blow;
And thousands more, of blessed forms and dyes—
I love ye all!
Beautiful nurslings of the early dew !
Fanned in your loveliness by every breeze,
And shaded o’er by green and arching trees:
I often wish that I were one of you,
Dwelling afar upon the grassy leas—
-1 love ye all!
Beautiful watchers! day and night ye wake !
The evening star grows dim and fades away,
And morning comes and goes, and then the day
Within the arms of night its rest doth take;
But ye are watchful wheresoe’er we stray —
I love ye all!
Beautiful objects of the wild-bce’s love !
The wild-bird joys your opening bloom to see,
And in your native woods and wilds to be.
All hearts, to Nature true, ye strangely move ;
Ye are so passing fair —so passing free—
-1 love ye ail:
Beautiful children of the glen and dell —
The dingle deep—the moorland stretching wide,
And of the mossy fountain’s sedgy side !
Ye o'er my heart have thrown a lovesome spell;
And though the worldling, scorning, may deride—
-1 love ye all I
—From the Poems of Robert Nicoll.
WHAT DOST THOU WHISPER, MURMURING
SHELL?
What dost thou whisper, murmuring Shell ?
Child of the fathomless dark sea,
Thou canst great Ocean’s secrets tell;
Oh then proclaim thy lore to me!
Teach me the language of thy tone;
What would thy cold still lips reveal ?
All the dread mysteries thou hast known,
Oh not for ever thus conceal!
What dost thou whisper, murmuring Shell ?
Wouldst thou dread Ocean’s secrets tell ?
Bear’st thou unto some heart bereaved
A message, that from parting breath
Thy apt and ready form received,
Ere Beauty found her bridegroom Death ?
Or didst thou leave the wide domain,
And thy bright home in coral cave,
To echo Man’s shrill cry of pain,
Ere life was vanquished by the wave ?
What dost thou whisper, murmuring Shell ?
Wouldst thou dread Ocean’s secrets tell ?
Miss Camilla toulmia.


4soi(cc to CorrfSponUonts.
JVe beg to acknowledge , with thanks , communications from P. P.,
jEneas, H., and D. D
Notice to &QTnts.
Our Country Agents are requested to inform us, at their
earliest convenience, of the result of their labours in our behaf
during the past half-year.
CATALLACTICS.
In nova fert animus mutatas dicere formas
Corpora.
Our friend Professor Liebig of Giessen says: A
beautiful connexion subsists between the organic and
inorganic kingdoms of nature. Inorganic matter
affords food to plants, and they, on the other hand,
yield the means of subsistence to animals. The con-
ditions necessary for animal and vegetable nutrition
are essentially different. An animal requires for its
development, and for the sustenance of its vital
functions, a certain class of substances which can
only be generated by organic beings possessed of life.
Although many animals are entirely carnivorous, yet
their primary nutriment must be derived from plants;
for the animals upon which they subsist receive their
nourishment from vegetable matter. But plants find
new nutritive material only in inorganic substances.
Hence one great end of vegetable life is to generate
matter adapted for the nutrition of animals out of
inorganic substances, which are not fitted for this
purpose.
The ultimate constituents of plants are those which
form organic matter in general, namely, carbon, hy-
drogen, nitrogen, and oxygen. These elements are
always present in plants, and produce by their union
the various proximate principles of which they consist.
The substances which constitute the principal mass
of every vegetable are compounds of carbon with
oxygen and hydrogen, in the proper relative propor-
tions for forming water. Woody fibre, starch, sugar,
and gum, for example, are such compounds of carbon
with the elements of water. In another class of sub-
stances containing carbon as an element, oxygen and
hydrogen are again present ; but the proportion of
oxygen is greater than would be required for produc-
ing water by union with the hydrogen. The nume-
rous organic acids met with in plants belong, with
few exceptions, to this class.
A third class of vegetable compounds contain car-
bon and hydrogen, but no oxygen, or less of that
element than would be required to convert all the hy-
drogen into water, These may be regarded as com-
pounds of carbon with the elements of water and an
excess of hydrogen. Such are the volatile and fixed
oils, wax, and the resins,—many of them have acid
characters.
Nitrogen forma only a very small part of plants ;
hut it is never entirely absent from any part of them.
Even when it does not absolutely enter into the com-
position of a particular part or organ, it is always to
be found in the fluids which pervade it.
In the normal state of growth, plants can only de-
live their nourishment from the atmosphere and the
soil. Although oxygen and nitrogen form the princi-
pal constituents of the atmosphere, yet they are not
the only substances found in it. Watery vapour and
carbonic acid gas materially modify its properties,
rhe former of these falls upon the earth as rain, and
brings with it any soluble matter which it meets in
its passage through the air,
Carbonic acid, water, and ammonia (a compound
of hydrogen and nitrogen) are the final products of
the decay of animal and vegetable matter. In an
isolated condition, they usually exist in the gaseous
form. Hence on their formation, they must escape
into the atmosphere.
Some virgin soils, such as those of America, con-
tain vegetable matter in large proportion ; and as
these have been found eminently adapted for the cul-
tivation of most plants, the organic matter contained
in them has naturally been recognized as the cause of
their fertility. To this matter, the term “ vegetable
mould” or humus has been applied. Indeed this
peculiar substance appears to play such an important
part in the phenomena of vegetation, that vegetable
physiologists have been induced to ascribe the fer-
tility of every soil to its presence. It is believed
by many to be the principal nutriment of plants, and
is supposed to be extracted by them from the soil in
which they grow. It is itself the product of the
decay of vegetable matter, and must therefore contain
many of the constituents which are found in plants
during life.
That humus is extracted from the soil by the roots
of plants, and that the carbon entering into its com -
position serves in some form or other to nourish then
tissues is an untenable position, Humus, in the
form in which it exists in the soil, does not afford the
smallest nourishment to plants. Neither does the
alkaline decoction of mould or peat precipitated by-
means of acids, and termed humic acid, serve, in its
unaltered condition, for the nourishment of plants.
An English acre produces about 2000 pounds of
carbon, from 5,300 pounds of firs, pines, beeches, &c,
or from 5,200 pounds of rye and ryestraw, or from
5,000 pounds of hay, or from 40,000 pounds of
beet. This quantity or carbon could not be furnished
by humus of the soil, nor by any solution of humic
acid through the roots of plants.
The absorption of carbon from the atmosphere
during the months of growthin the temperate northern
latitudes by one acre of meadows and cornfields is
nearly five pounds daily. This computation sup-
poses that the superficies of the leaves and other green
parts of plants, by which the absorption of carbon is
effected, is only double that of the soil on which they
grow, and is therefore under the truth.
The office of the carbon contained in the humus is
to form and feed the underground radicles of the
plant before the superior organs are formed—and it
is sufficient for no other purpose.
Equal surfaces of cultivated land of an average
fertility produce equal quantities of carbon ; yet, how
unlike have been the different conditions of the growth
of the plants from which this has been deduced !
Let us now inquire whence the grass in a meadow,
or the wood in a forest, receives its carbon, since
there no manure—no carbon—has been given to
it as nourishment ? and how it happens, that the
soil, thus exhausted, instead of becoming poorer,
becomes every year richer in this element ?
A certain quantity of carbon is taken every year
from the forest or meadow in the form of wood or
hay, and in spite of this, the quantity of carbon in
the soil augments ; it becomes richer in humus.
It is said that in fields and orchards all the carbon
which may have been taken away as herbs, as straw,
as seeds, or as fruit, is replaced by means of manure ;
and yet this soil produces no more carbon than that


of the forest or meadow, where it is never replaced.
It cannot be conceived that the laws for the nutrition
of plants are changed by culture—that the sources of
carbon for fruit or grain, and for grass or trees, are
different.
It is not denied that manure exercises an influence
upon the development of plants ; but it may be
affirmed with positive certainty, that it neither serves
for tlie production of the carbon nor has any influence
upon it, because we find that the quantity of carbon
produced by manured lands is not greater than that
yielded by lands which are not manured. Humus
arises from the decay of plants. No primitive humus,
therefore, can have existed—for have pre-
ceded the humus.
Now, whence did the first vegetables derive their
carbon ? and in what form is the carbon contained in
the atmosphere 1
These two questions involve the consideration of
two most remarkable natural phenomena, which by
their reciprocal and uninterrupted influence maintain
the life, of the individual animals and vegetables,
and the continued existence of both kingdoms of
organic nature.
GAFFER GRAY.
CHEMICAL PHILOSOPHY.
CONTINUATION OF VEGETABLE CHEMISTRY. WINE.
The chemical operations carried on in the manufac-
ture of wine, are important and interesting. Wine,
properly so called, is certainly the juice of the grape,
but liquors under the name of wine are frequently
made from currants, gooseberries, raisins, and other
fruits. The component parts of wine are very vari-
able, as may be expected from their different colours
and taste. The principles generally found in wine,
are water, alcohol, ether, sugar, gum, and the
bilartrate of potassa, commonly called the crust of
wine. The best grapes are produced in Spain, Por-
tugal, and Madeira, where they are found in very
large bunches.
When the grapes are gathered to make wine, they
are immediately put into large casks, where they are
pressed, an operation which is often performed by the
naked feet of men, but machinery is now most in use
for this purpose. The juice thus expressed is put
into large tubs, either of wood or stone, and may be
covered or not ; these tubs are placed in a cellar of
the temperature of 80° Fahrenheit, Under these
circumstances, fermentation soon commences, and
continues for a long time. When it begins to dimi-
nish, it is reanimated by stirring the mass with a stick,
or by the tread of human feet. This renewed pres-
sure causes a fresh excitement, and the fermentation
proceeds with a new force, and when it again stops
the wine has become cleared, and is drawn into casks.
Still the wine in the casks continue to ferment. In
the former fermentation the leaven or yeast rises to
the surface, but the greater part of this last falls to
the bottom of the vessel, where it is retained by the
bitartrate of potassa which is deposited at the same
time as the yeast. There are some compositions in
use requiring fermentation, such as beer and bread,
which cannot be excited without the application of
ferment, or as it is called yeast, in advance ; this is
not the case with wine, for the grapes contain an
abundance of sugar, to which sugar is also combined
in the grape both gluten and alburnine ; it is the
decomposition of these substances which causes the
excitement called fermentation. During the process
of fermentation which takes place while the wine is
in casks in the cellar, all the ingredients of the grape
juice become separated, carbonic acid gas is thrown
off, and alcohol is left in the liquid. Persons deputed
to watch this part of the process have been known to
lose all power and animation from the sudden and
powerful escape of the carbonic acid gas. This
violent action and escape is sometimes arrested before
the wine has arrived at perfection, by putting the
liquor into barrels during the escape of the gas. In
this state the wine becomes brisk and sharp, it has
also a sweet taste because the saccharine matter hasr
not become entirely decomposed ; it is also weaker in
spirit for the same reason, for the saccharine matter
is one of the bases of alcohol. Wine in this condition
is called champagne. When the fermentation is
allowed to finish its progress, the liquid becomes cool,
the effervescence ceases, and the wine is a limpid fluid.
The colour of wines dependson many circumstances,
for merchants often imitate red wine by colouring it
with beet-root, whereas the pure red wines derive
their colour from the purple skin of the grape which
becomes dissolved, and the colouring matter of which
is reddened by the acid contained in the juice. Pure
tannin is also found in the skin and seeds of the grapes
giving to it its property of astringency. White wines
also derive their colour from their own husk and
skins, but brown sherry is tinted by burnt sugar.
Alcohol and all other spirits are procured by dis-
tillation. Sugar and hydrogen are the bases of
alcohol, it can therefore he extracted from any veget-
able substance containing these two principles. It
is owing to the presence of hydrogen that alcohol is
so easily set on fire ; therefore the strength and purity
of all spirituous liquors are tested by the facility
with which they will ignite. The method employed
for procuring alcohol is also dependant on this same
principle, for as alcohol will boil much sooner than
water, the fermented liquor is exposed to the heat
that will be sufficient to boil the alcohol only, by
which means it only will rise in vapour, which vapour
is received through a tube, where it cools and becomes
liquid. In the same manner brandy is distilled from
wine, rum from sugar, gin and whiskey from grain,
and arrack from rice.
Hydrogen and sugar are the bases of alcohol, and
alcohol is the basis of all spirituous liquors, and we
may say of all intoxication.
Liqueurs are also composed of alcohol, syrup or
sugar, and the essential oil of the nut or plant from
which they derive their name, which materials are
infused six weeks with occasional agitation, after
which the thus aromatised spirit is received by dis-
tillation.
Pure alcohol, even when reduced to vapour, is still
not an elementary body, for it can be again decom-
posed by the action of an acid, when another substance
is found called ether, which is the most easily inflamed
of all fluids. It is very light and quickly evaporates.
Its odour varies according to the acid employed.
The sulphuric ether is mostly used, and is commonly
called the sweet oil of vitriol . Alcohol and ether
never freeze.
B.
Longevity of Trees. —The following trees are calculated
to live about—Elm 335 years, cypress 350, cheirostemon 400,
larch 575, orange 630, olive 700, ornamental plane 720, cedar
800, lime 1,147, oak 1,500, yew 2,820, baobab 5,150, taxo-
dium 6,000.


MATHEMATICS.
No. XII.
During the seventeenth century a splendid constella-
tion of philosophers appeared, to further advance the
science and enrich its annals, above the hemispheres
of France, Holland, and Germany, and Great Britain
who shone resplendently in the person of Sir Isaac
Newton, of whom Pope observes, when
“ Nature and nature’s laws lay hid in night,
God said ‘let Newton be,’ and all was light.”
About this time also the celebrated Academy of
Sciences was founded in France, and England, five
years afterwards, reared her Greenwich Observatory.
During this century the French astronomers held a
decided superiority over the English, on account of the
excellence of their instruments rendering their dis-
coveries more worthy of notice.
About this period a micrometer was added to
the telescope, and now Britain became as celebrated
for the improvement of astronomical instruments, as
for the production of celebrated astronomers.
To enumerate the names of astronomers who have
arisen in various parts of the world since the 17th
century, with a brief notice of individual discoveries,
would occupy volumes instead of pages, for the names
deserving notice—more or less—extend in round
numbers to three hundred and thirty, up to the pre-
sent date; therefore, we shall close this brief and
rather imperfect outline with the name of the justly
celebrated Sir W. Herschell, whose discoveries are
adapted to create an ardent desire of seeing some-
thing more unfolded to the mind’s eye, than a mere
glance at the vast and deeply interesting science of
astronomy ; but how little attention soever we pay to
it, it cannot fail of inspiring us with a higher value
of our being, by raising our ideas to the immensity
of which we individually form a part, and by direct-
ing our attention to the laws which regulate the beau-
tiful order of nature, and, consequently, to the wis-
dom which has arranged and which guides the whole.
Here we had intended to give a slight biographical
memoir of this illustrious astronomer, but we find
it rendered unnecessary by the article headed Bio-
graphy in last week’s Journal. We shall merely
add, that Herschell must be remembered for his labo-
rious activity and untiring talent; for showing the
solar system to be half as large again as he found it;
for his discovery of the rotation of Saturn’s ring and
its measurement; for the discovery of the motion of
binary stars round each other ; for the magnificent and
beautiful idea of other systems equal if not supe-
rior to our own, which has thus been opened to scien-
tific speculations ! —for his discoveries in connection
with the milky way; —for the construction of his
enormous forty feet telescope, with which on its com-
pletion he discovered the 6th satellite of Uranus ;
for his other minor discoveries, endless in themselves;
—for his own remarkable application of his talents
up to the day of his death ; and finally, for the
presentation to the world of another astronomer in
the shape of his son, Sir J. Herschell, who has
penned the best astronomical work for instruction
now extant.
This star, (namely Sir W. H.) finally set on the
23rd of August, 1822.
As the subject,—the history of which has been
thus slightly sketched—possesses its own intrinsic
merits, we propose, with your kind permission, Mr.
Editor, to begin a new series headed Astronomy,
more especially, as continuing it under the present
heading would be trenching on our original inten-
tion ; therefore, without further prelude, we start to
the next article which our plan points out, and pro-
pose to the kind consideration of our readers, one or
two articles on
NAVIGATION.
Without a knowledge of w r hich, to some small extent
at least, the wisdom of generations could not have
been disseminated; nor otherwise could remote and
barbarous nations have become enlightened. What
should we have known of the mighty dead, their
writings or transactions, had not the mighty ridge of
the trackless deep been rendered subservient to man ?
How else could history have existed for aught but in-
land nations'? What should we, as a people, know
of those who by their songs promoted civilization
amongst Ihe earlier inhabitants of this earth ?—who
have inspired the bards of every age to imitate, if not
surpass their progenitors in power of song and effect,
to which in a measure, we must ascribe our present
high position in learned lore, for by their writings
the love of knowledge has been preserved amongst a
few, and finally become universal.
That we are what we are, —it is an undoubted fact
—arises from the experience of those who have gone
before ; and well it is for us that the present science
stepped in to enable us to hold communion with the
spirits of old. As children w r e are born into the
world to receive impressions from things and persons
around us, and by those impressions our minds are in
a great measure fashioned for good or evil, gradually
it is true, but permanently. We can draw- an analogy
between a single child and a number, and between a
single generation and many, without affecting the
cogency of our argument in the least, for both are
more or less civilized or intellectually fashioned by
the individual conduct of existing individuals, or by
the traditionary examples of preceding generations,
handed down orally or treasured in written histories.
T. L. D.
Original Poetry.
THE NIGHT WATCHMAN’S MUSINGS.
No. 11.
Cloudy, odorous, and pitchy
Is the night,—soft, warm, and itchy
Like new flannel, for mosquitoes
Large and leggy rise to bite us,
Or a smaller species, such as
Tease with mild unheeded touches—
Fizz and bizz and dizzily whizz
All about one’s hands and phiz,
And cause one rub one’s wrists and niz.
I’ve had a dream of rain and lightning—
Fig round drops—clouds’ edges bright’ning,
Flashing—sudden crashing-—rumbling,
Water-gutters rushing, tumbling—
’Twas a dream, and nothing in it,
The mind’s absorption for a minute.
What we wish and what we hope
Makes us merry and makes us mope.
That subtle odour still I snuff,
'Tis a still now, sure enough.
Other odours load the gale—
Shambles—shambling housemaid's pail—.
Tan pits emptied—gas escaped—
Tallow candles newly shaped—
But quite another thing is this,
Peculiar, sui generis.
Ever, ever, as I go,


Up or down, or quick or slow,
Strong or gentle be the wind,
Or none at all, as now we find,
Bright night, dark night, busy, still,
Like mill-race or pond of mill,
That vagrant odour haunts me yet,
Makes me wish, and doubt, and fret,
From night to night, from week to week,
I dread, desire, abandon, seek ;
Now hopes, now fears, my bosom fill,
And falsest forms of swan-necked stil',
Tub, cask, worm, condenser, cooler,
Vex my fancy and befool her—
They vivid and fallacious rise—
I often dream I clutch the prize,
For well I know, if it were found,
To me ’twere worth good fifty pound.
Things that are earthly, sordid, bestial,
Do strangely mix with things celestial.
Lately thus in musing mood,
With my face to the south I stood,
When unexpectedly by chance
1 saw the Comet all at ones.
I saw it just as others see—
But, gazing, strains came down to me
Of music and philosophy.
The aspects extraordinary
Of comets, the great tails they carry,
The sudden way they burst on us,
Their paths that seem anomalous,
Their swiftness, and imposing size,
Excite our awe and just surprise.
The uninstructed are unnerved
With dread ;—the wise who have observed
Of things each cause, and law, and change,
Confess their nature passing strange.
Of what th’ appendages display’d
(Improperly called tails) are made—
Whether their heads are different quite,
Seeming more solid and more bright—
What offices they exercise—
And other singularities
Too num’rous at this time to mention—
Surpass as yet our apprehension.
The number of the comets noted
In almagests by Herschell quoted,
Is several hundreds, but ’tis thought
That had the telescope been brought
T n active use, in days of yore,
They might have reckoned thousands more
(But to be sure, that could not be,
Because it was not known, d’ye see 2)
Numbers of them are understood
All observations to elude,
By reason that they hold their way
Above th’ horizon in the day,
And in the sun’s o’erpow’ring sight
They pale their ineffectual light.
Yet instances are told, and true,
Of noonday comets, one or two.
’Tis thus appears a first-rate one :
With tail expanded like a fan,
O’er many million miles extended,
With nebulous nucleus, large and splendid,
Bright in its centre, like a star
Or planet;—while the tail afar
Broad and diffused, and in two streams
Divergent, like a meteor seems, —
Yea, like the meteors, strange, sublime,
Of Boreal clime, in winter time,
Or (signal sad of human fear
When gales are high and leeshore near)
Like rocket sped from bark or ocean,
But without noise, or sparks, or motion.
All time and place, all motion, space,
All creatures of erratic race,
All orbs eccentric, vagabond,
All orbits that extend beyond
Remotest telescopic distance,
Are rul’d by codes and bound in systems.
One of the two unfailing laws
Shoots them forth or homeward draws
Thin and vapoury is their tissue,
Swiff their advent, swift their issue,
Steady yet as earth that rolls
Soiid on her icy poles.
Nice they spin from regions far,
No confusion there, nor war.
Satellites that see the stranger
Wonder at escape from danger.
In all the wide celestial empire
Reigns patriarch rule and childlike temper,
When Aristotle shed in Athens
The rays of science on young heathens,
( Plato who had instructed him
Was waning near th’ horizon’s rim,)
A comet came, with tail so wide,
A third o’ th’ heavens it occupied,
Later, since truth and learning first
From feudal bars and cloisters burst,
have been comets, each with train
Filling one-half of Nox’s reign.
And six-and -twenty years ago,
When 1 was young and pure—but, no—
That thought, alas ! I cannot brook—
Wretched! I cannot backwards look—•
That time, and that which did succeed—
That unatoned, repented deed!
NOCTIVAGUS.
THE 27TH JANUARY, 1845.
Rising early, slumber scorning,
Out I look’d upon the morning,
Did I ever ? no, I never
Saw such unpropitious weather,
Mizzly, grisly, drizzly ! What a
Digmal day for our Regatta !
[Chorus] How vexatious ! gracious, what a
Day for Races and Regatta 1
Grey and gloomy, cloudy, rainy !
Slobbery streets, and shingles shiny !
Fresh breeze from the southward blowing !
Will it clear up? there’s no knowing !
Washy, plashy, nashy ! what a
Wretched day for grand Regatta f
How vexatious ! Sec.
Tell me milkman, bright pails bearing,
Is there any chance of clearing ?
Well—don’t know, Sir, —No, can’t say, Sir.
After breakfast, p’r’aps, it may, Sir—
Nasty, blasty, lasty ! —What a
Scurvy day for gay Regatta !
How vexatious i &c.
After breakfast out I sallied,
Spirits, but not weather, rallied,
Hopes and wishes vain abounded
Destined still to be confounded,
Met my friends from Parramatta
Come to see the gay Regatta 1
How vexatious! &c.
All the ladies fill’d with sorrow,
Won’t clear up before to-morrow.
Gave a desperate early luncheon,
Grief of mind would drain a puncheon,
I had liefer stinted batta
Than to lose the fine Regatta !
How vexatious! gracious, what a
Day for Races and Regatta !
EXTRACTS.
Origin of the Names of the American States. —Maine
was so called as early as 1638, from Maine in France, of which
Henrietta Mary Queen of England, was at that time proprietor.
New Hampshire was the name given to the territory «onveyed
by the Plymouth Company to Captain John Mason, by patent,
Nov. 6, 1639, with reference to the patentee, who was governor
of Portsmouth in Hampshire, England. Vermont was so
called by the inhabitants in their declaration of independence,
January 16, 1777, from the French verd, green, and mont,
mountain. Massachusetts, from a tribe of Indians in the
neighbourhood of Boston. Tribe is thought to have derived its
name from the Blue Hills of Milton. “■ I have learned,” fays
Roger Williams, “ that Massachusetts was so called from the
Blue Hills.’ Rhode Island was named in 1614. in reference


to the island of Rhodes in the Mediterranean. Connecticut
was so called from the Indian name of its principal river.
New York, in reference to the Duke ot York and Albany, to
whom this territory was granted. Pennsylvania was named,
in 1631, after William Penn, Delaware, in 1702, from Dela-
ware Bay, on which it lies, and which received its name from
Lord De La War, who died in this bay. Maryland, in honor
of Henrietta Maria, Queen of Charles I. in his patent of Lord
Baltimore, June 30, 1632. Virginia was named, in 1584,
after Elizabeth, the virgin Queen of England- Carolina, by
the French in 1564, in honor of King Charles IX. of France.
Georgia, in 1817, from its principal river. Mississippi, in 1800,
from its western boundary. Mississippi is said to denote Kie,
whole river, that is, the river formed by the nnion of many.
Louisiana, so called in honor of Louis XVI. of France. Ten-
nessee, in 1796, from its principal river. The word Tennessee
is said to signify a curved spoon. Kentucky, in 1782, from its
principal river. The word is said to signify the river of men.
Indiana, in 1802, from its southern boundary. Missouri, in
IS2I, from its principle river. Michigan, named in 1805,
from the lake on its borders. Arkansas, in 1819, from its
principal river. Florida was so called by Joan Ponse Le Leon,
in 1572, because it was discovered on Easter Sunday, in
Spanish, Pascus Florida. — Simmonds ’ Colonial Magazine.
National Debt. —We find the following curious calcula-
tions in the Times: —It appears that a sovereign is about 0,59
inch thick, or that a thousand measure 59 inches, hence our
debt of £800,000,000 would form a cylinder of sovereigns, if
laid one on the other, of nearly 742 miles in length, that is,
almost twice the distance from London to Edinburgh—a dis-
tance which it would take a man, at the round rate of 40
miles per day, upwards of three weeks, excluding Sundays, to
walk. Our debt therefore would actually form two solid cylin-
drical rims of gold fths inch in diameter to a path extending from
one capital of Great Britain to the other, upwards of 370 miles.
But if, instead of being laid on the edges, they were laid flat
on the ground and touching, they would form a line of nearly
10,048 miies, or would reach far towards half way round the
globe. Of this golden line, it would take a man, walking 40
miles a day, no less than 276 days, or about ten months and
three weeks, omittting Sundays, to go from one extremity to
the other.— lnquirer.
The National Debt. —The unpaid debt amounts to nearly
£800,000,000 sterling, a sum not so easily comprehended as
expressed in words; but if we look forward to the year 2000
of the Christian era, and back to the birth of Christ, and further
back 2300 years to the Flood, and further back 1700 years to
the Mosaic date of the Creation of man, then the whole date
will amount to 6000 years, and the debt is equal to a dollar a
minute during the whole of the time, reckoning each dollar at
five shillings value. Well may we stagger under the load.—
Liverpool Mercury.
pipping Entdltgcncc.
ARRIVALS.
January 28.—The steamer Thistle, Mulhal, from Moretonßay.
January 29.—The steamer Maitland , Parsons, from Port
M acquarie.
January 30.—The schooner Edward, Truscott, from Boyd
Town, Twofold Bay, the 28th instant,
January 30.—The barque Palestine , Sim, from London, the
20th August, St. Übes, the 9th September, and Bahia the I6th
November,
February I.—The schooner Star of China, Tinley, from
Port Nicholson the Bth, and Port Nelson the 15th ultimo.
February 3.—The barque Chance, Roxby from Newcastle.
February 4.—The schooner Terror, Dunning, from Kawau,
the 18th, and the Bay of Islands the 21st of January.
February 4.—The schooner Coquette, Rogers, from Huihana
Society Islands), the 15th ultimo.
February 4.—The steamer Maitland, Parsons, from Port
Macquarie.
DEPARTURES.
January 29. The ship Garland Grove, Robson, for Liverpool.
January 29.—She steamer Sovereign, Cape, for Moreton Bay.
January 29.—The steamer James Watt, Taggart, for Hobart
Town*
February 2,—The steamer Shamrock, Gilmore, for Boyd
Town, Port Plnilip, and Launceston.
February 2. The ship Matilda, Bliss, for the whaling
grounds.
February 2,-—The barque Morayshire, Smith, for Manila.
February 3.—The schooner Comet, Cork, for New Zealand,
via Twofold Bay.
SffOTICS.
rpilE Partnership hitherto subsisting between us, under
j the style and firm of Benham and Co., is this day dis
solved by mutual consent, and all moneys owing to the late
firm are to be paid to Mr. Avery Benham.
AVERY BENHAM.
ROBERT PORTER.
Witness— Charles Malpass.
AVERY BENHAM, in reference to the above notice,
returns his grateful acknowledgements to his friends
and patrons for the liberal support he has experienced since
his commencement, and in soliciting on behalf of himself a
continuance of those favours, assures them of his determination
to uphold the character of his establishment, by offering the
best articles at the lowest remunerating profit.
He has just received, ex the Midlothian, a choice assort-
ment of Italian goods, the inspection of which he respectfully
invites. He has also on hand
Hysonskin Tea of every brand
Souchong and Congou ditto
Finest Hyson
Coffee, raw and roasted
Sugar of all kinds
Negrohead, Cavendish, and Colonial Tobacco
York Hams, Cheese, and Bacon
Butter, a weekly supply.
With every article in the trade; and he pledges himself that
by care in the selection and promptitude in dispatch, to merit
a continuation of the patronage so liberally bestowed on him-
self and predecessor.
Country orders will meet with immediate attention.
No. 394, George-street.
TO WOOI.GSOWSES AND SETTLERS.
THE undersigned, feeling grateful for the measure of
support he has hitherto received, begs to acquaint his
country constituents and other friends, that to meet the present
depressed state of the markets, his sale of charges in future,
for the sale of Colonial Produce, will be as under :
Wool, 1 per cent.,
Grain, Hay, &c., &c., above £5O, per cent.
Ditto ditto, under £so, 5 per cent.
Having had considerable experience in the sale of Wool
and Colonial Produce generally, the undersigned pledges him-
self to obtain the highest rates on all consignments entrusted
to him. Account sales rendered promptly, and the nett
proceeds remitted therewith, or appropriated as advised. The
present mode of selling Wool, &c., without reserve by auction,
has many disadvantages, not unfrequently failing to prove a
fair criterion of the market value, as a combination of the
buyers may take place prejudicial to the interests of the
seller; again it is not generally understood, (or implied by
advertisement), until made manifest in the return of account
sales, that all Wool, &c., sold by public auction is subject to
A DIRECT TAX OF PER CENT.!
Orphan dues, which with the addition of auctioneer’s com-
mission, advertising charges, &c., makes a clear charge of at
least three PER cent. It must therefore be self evident
that the sale of Wool by private contract, through an ex-
perienced agent, is a much safer and cheaper medium to those
parties interested.
B. S. LLOYD.
General Commission Agent,
10, Bridge-street.
Ex ESSBI.OTHI.&K-.
B
EST LONDON
Best glazed Starch
Best Stone Blue
Best Powder Blue
Bottled Fruits
Pickles and Sauces
Imperial Cap Paper
Bag Cap ditto
Cartridge ditto
Royal ditto
News ditto
Cap ditto
Imported and on Sale by
STARCH
AVERY BENHAM,
George-street,


To the Friends of EEUCATEOTJ throughout the
Colony.
{N again opening Classes in Sydney, the undersigned begs
_ leave to place before the colonial public, the following
Prospectus of the subjects proposed to be taught in his
Elementary Classes.
Class I. — Elements op Language—
Will comprise instruction in the rudiments of the Latin and
French languages, so as to elucidate the principles of general
Grammar, as exemplified in the construction of these lan-
guages, and in their etymological connexion with one another
and with the English.
Class ll.— Elements of English Composition—
Will comprise a course of Reading on various subjects,
historical, ethical, philosophical and literary, selected with a
view to impart knowledge methodically, in each department
of instruction, and to perfect the pupil in the practice of
composition.
Class lll.— Elements of Mathematics—
Will comprise a course of Arithmetic, Algebra and Geometry,
embracing their application to accounts, land surveying and
navigation, according to the standing of the pupil.
Class IV. — Elements of Natural Philosophy—
Will comprise a familiar exposition of the various depart-
ments of Science, with experimental elucidations, according as
apparatus shall be procured for the purpose.
Besides these, the undersigned will superintend forenoon
and afternoon Classes, for pupils from ten years of age and
upwards; the object of which will be to prepare them for pro-
secuting to advantage the more advanced studies.
The Forenoon Class will embrace instruction in the Latin
and French languages, general Reading and Geography ; —the
Afternoon Class in Arithmetic, and the elements of Algebra
and Geometry.
For instruction in penmanship and lineal drawing, a separate
master will attend, if found requisite.
The Classes will be monthly : thus affording to the pupil,
if deemed eligible, cessation from studies during any given
month, without involving the expense of attendance.
The number of each Class will be limited to twenty: so
that each individual pupil shall be under the immediate super-
intendence of the undersigned himself. By this arrangement,
the undersigned feels confident of being able to fill up every
moment of time allotted for study, to the greatest possible
advantage, and thus to render the progress made, (although
the fees may seem higher than they might be made under
other circumstances) a virtual and important saving in the
cost of the pupil’s education.
HENRY CARMICHAEL, M.A.
just" receives,
FROM ONE OF THE FIRST HOUSES IN LONDON,
O IX CASES, containing a most elegant and varied assort-
ment of plain and drawn silk, satin, and fancy BONNETS,
which having been purchased in England upon the most ad-
vantageous terms, Mrs. Dobson can confidently assert that
the ladies of Sydney have now an opportunity (which has
never before been presented to them) of selecting really fashion-
able and rich goods, at prices very far below the cost of
making in the colony.
Show Room next the Commercial Bank, George-street.
Bridal and Mourning orders executed in the first style, upon
the most reasonable terms.
THE CHEAPEST SHOP IN THE COLONY, AND NO PUFF !
258, FITT-STREET,
(FOUR DOORS FROM MARKET-STREET.)
JOSEPH SMITH AND WHITEHEAD respectfully
announce to their friends and the public at large, that
they have received by the Hamlet, and other late arrivals, a
large assortment of|French satin, velvet, and gossamer HATS,
of the latest Paris and London fashions, to which the atten-
tion of the public is earnestly invited; likewise to their very
superior stock of ladies’, gentlemen’s, and boys’ and children’s
black and drab stuff and beaver Hats, which they can finish
to any shape or size at the shortest notice. Judges’ and
Clergymen’s Hats made to order.
P S.—From Smith and Whitehead’s long experience in
some of the first houses in London, they are capable of fur-
nishing those parties who may honour them with their orders
with Hats of any shape or fashion, which for style and work-
manship will bear comparison with any London Hats ever
sent to the colony.
TO GSXg-T&E^EEIff.
ESSRS. PITE AND PRESTON solicit the attention of
Settlers and the Public to their Tailoring Department,
having just received a fresh supply of every description of
materials adapted to that branch of their business ; they feel
assured that the merits of their Tailoring Trade are too well
known to require comment, and would, therefore, only remark
to those who may not yet have patronised their establishment,
that the cut, quality, and workmanship of Clothing made by
them are such as cannot be surpassed by any London house:
their scale of prices, for really first-rate articles, is decidedly the
lowest in New South Wales, and Gentlemen from the Interior
can (as usual) be at all times supplied with a complete suit of
Colonial Tweed, or any other material, in ten hours.
Emporium, Pitt-street
TO DEUVAT3 X’AX&XZ.XXfS, &.O.
Tin HE Undersigned are now prepared to supply their genuine
L Wines, &c., at the following low prices for cash .
IN ONE DOZEN CASES, TO SUIT PURCHASERS.
ALSO,
Cases containing 4 port, 4 sherry, 4 Madeira, 245. per case.
Cases containing 6 port, and 6 sherry, at 245. per case.
Ale and porter, at 6s. 6d. per dozen, warranted equal to
Dunbar's.
Settlers, &c., can have either of the above wines forwarded
to any part of the colony upon receipt of a remittanca or order
on their Sydney agents.
TEBBUTT AND CO.,
75, King-street West.
N.B. If the above Wines are not approved of, T. and Co. still
continue their former practice of exchanging , or returning the
cash, without hesitation.
ViLRROVXXAS BUTTEE.
THE Subscriber having contracted for the weekly supply,
offers the above at the lowest market price to his friends
and the public.
AVERY BENHAM,
No, 394, George-slreet.
SALE BY AUCTION.
CAPITAL FiBEISHOS.:© REOTTiIXS,
Including “THE OLD BLACK DOG” well-known public-
house, kept by Mr. Bolton, with nine Shops, Houses,
and Premises, in Cumberland-street, Gloucester-
street, and Frazer’s Lane, &c.
MR. STUBBS is honoured with instructions to sell by
public auction, at the Mart, King-street, on
THURSDAY, the 27th FEBRUARY, 1845,
At Twelve o’clock precisely,
“ The Old Black Dog Inn,” corner of Gloucester-street.
Four two-storied Houses adjoining, with verandah at back,
brick and stone built, with yard. The windows are double
sashed and glazed.
Four small Shops and Dwelling-houses adjoining.
The Butcher’s Shop at the corner of Cumberland-street, let to
Mr. Holbrow.
An extensive Allotment in Gloucester-street, with building
materials, &c.
Three Houses in Kent-street (Trafalgar Terrace.)
Two Houses in Clarence-street, known as Driscol’s Livery
Stables.
One stone-built three storied House, opposite the Lord Nelson,
in Kent-street.
Two unfinished two-storied Houses, in Argyle-street.
P.S. —Further particulars, with the lots numbered, will be
made known as soon as the survey and charts are completed.
Interim, parties applying to Mr. Stubbs, at the Mart, King-
street, will receive every information respecting the situation,
streets, and rents, &c.
Terms at sale.
